Members, we're going to return to the senate third reading file. This is file item three forty seven Senate fourteen thirty seven, the clerk. Senate fourteen thirty seven by senator Skinner, actually murder. Mister Medina. Thank you, mister speaker and members. Today I rise to present Senate Bill fourteen thirty seven. A bill that limits murder prosecution, to people who intended it to kill. Actually killed aided and embedded a murder or behaved with reckless ind to human life. By doing so, Fourteen thirty seven, reforms California's existing law by making clear the distinction between individuals who participated in an underlying crime from individuals who chose to take someone's life or directly aided and taking of that life. In California, a person can be convicted of murder and face life in prison without killing anyone or even or even witnessing the murder. Under what's called the felony murder rule. A few days ago, I had the pleasure of meeting Bobby Garcia. In nineteen ninety two, Bobby Garcia was sixteen years old. He was living a rough life making bad choices with the groups of friends that he hung out with. One night, he and a group of friends made the terrible decision to rob a gang member. It wasn't until bobby was picked up by the police and interrogated the next day that he learned that one of his friends stabbed and killed the robbery victim. After they had all fled the robbery. Bobby had no intention of murdering anyone. He did not commit the murder. He had no weapon on his person and he was not even at the scene of the crime. Yet, he was facing a live sentence without parole under the felony murder rule. Bobby was told that if he plead guilty, he would avoid life without parole. At the age of sixteen, he was given two options. Mister Chair I asked for order. Please? Members. Please give mr Medina your un attention. At the age of sixteen, it was given two options. Spend the rest of his life in prison or plead guilty and have the possibility of parole. He plead guilty. Today, The young man that I met Bobby Garcia is the executive director of the J rest restored digestive initiative, and provides counseling to incarcerated men and women throughout California. Bobby is married with two daughters and a three year old and a two month old. And two thousand fourteen, Bobby was released from California prison after serving twenty two years. For a murder he did not commit. In nineteen eighty three, the California Supreme Court called the Felony murder rule Barbaric. Because it divorced intent from responsibility. The justice said, only the legislature could fix the problem. The time to fix the problem is now This statue irrational treats people who did not commit murder the same way it treats people who did commit murder. The felony murder rule is not only unjust on his face. It is unjust in its application. Thirty seconds of this. Average age of a non killer sentence under felony murder is between nineteen and twenty years old. Seventy two percent of the women serving life sentences for murder and California were not the killer. They were convicted under the felony murder rule. Before I started teaching in the public schools, I taught at the California institution for women. For two years. And there I met many women who hadn't killed anyone, but were remorse but they were incarcerated under this rule. I stand today in support of Sb fourteen thirty seven, because it reserves the harshest punishment for those who intentionally plan or actually committed the burger. There are many people like Bobby who were incarcerated under this rule who never committed murder and are ready for the opportunity to accept responsibility for their portion of the crime. Sb fourteen thirty seven is not a get out of jail free card. Far from it. Each defendant can still be charged and is still guilty of the serious felony he or she committed. And those who petition for rec reset if successful will also be held responsible for the underlying felony Please conclude mr Medina. I asked for your eye vote on Sb fourteen thirty seven. Thank you, miss Medina. Ms Rubio. You mr Speaker. I stand in support of Sb fourteen thirty seven. Members according to a thousand eighteen survey by the anti rec Coalition and restored justice seventy two percent of women serving a life sentence under California's felony murder rule or not the perpetrators and did not commit murder. Many of those cases, women were physically abused by their intimate partner. One one wins organization, who offers counseling and support in women's prisons in California road. The vast majority of incarcerated women We work with who were sentenced under the Felony murder role were navigating intimate partnered violence and were criminal for survival acts. These women are not murderers. Sb fourteen thirty seven ensures that we will continue to punish those who should be punished. But with a punishment that is scale to the level of the person's involvement in the crime. It allows us to distinguish those who actually killed from those who did not. And important, just an appropriate distinction. Thank you an to your vote on Sb sp fourteen thirty seven. Thank, mister Mr Bon. Thank you. Mister speaker and colleagues with Sb fourteenth at thirty seven, California once again has the chance to make an important and needed to reform to our criminal justice system. With Sb four thirty seven, an individual may only be convicted of murder, certainly a serious and horrible crime if the individual willingly participated inaccurate results in a homicide or an act that clearly was intended to result in a homicide. And the purpose of our justice system is the whole people accountable. For the specific crimes, they have committed in a fair and they go proceeding. But with existing law in the felony Murder murder room, that is not always the case. Unfortunately, under the felony Murder person can be charged with the most serious climate in our pen code even though they ind never committed that crime. That is wrong. We can change that today. The time has come. I want to thank center Skinner and Anderson for authoring this bill for all their hard work. And fighting for this much needed change, respectfully ask for your iphone vote. Mister Cooper, you're recognized. Thank you, Mister Speaker. This bill is retroactive applying to those. Who already been convicted of murder. Question for the author. Under this bill data objection. Thank you Cooper. Under this bill. Well with someone who is serving time for murder have to show in order to qualify for res? And also what will the burden prove be for the prosecution that we sin thing. Mister, you may take that now or in your clothes? I'll do it in my clothes. Mister Medina will address that question in his closed, mister Cooper. Okay. The convicted murderer only has to show that he that he was charged and convicted of murder. Well not the actual killer or major participant. Let me make it clear. This build does not addressed a standard of burden approve for the recent and a convicted murder beyond that. It only requires a person be declared, they are not the actual killer or a major participant. Is on the prosecution to prove otherwise in must in essence retry the case. This would become problematic under many scenarios, but especially troubling in cases in which the convicted murder is already played guilty. In those plea bargain, there's no record of testimony trial transcripts to review, so it's as a plea bargain. In these cases, we don't have the evidence. Then result would be that those who plead guilty and are currently serving time for murder will be released. The low estimate convict for murder is in a minimum of six hundred persons. The number comes from the proponents of the bill. The attorney's association believe this number could be much higher. Bottom line what this bill does is release those convicted murder in many cases with no documentation, that'd be trial transcript every trial evidence to refute convicted murderers and intent during the crime. But let's be honest here on this. This is high risk behavior in stockton in the Misty whole scene murder, driver dries up drops three guys off and go in the bank. With guns to throughout the bank. And his high risk behavior, the driver never went in. Okay, But he's dropping off to go Rob bank. She got killed and two bad guys were killed. That's the big issue think about that. A lot of marijuana rip offs are going with guns. So a lot of these things happen during high behaviors. And the women they're victim the domestic violence. Absolutely. But a lot of these cases, they knew their boyfriends, carry guns. I've have a arrested of people like that before and done this and book them be for felony murder. It happens a lot. So rarely someone though, hey. I no Idea this is going on. They see it. They see the gun. They know what's going on and it's crazy. Right now, we're releasing a hundred life of month in California. Cdc, a hundred life versus a month, eighty one hundred and nine prop forty seven, fifty seven, pop fifty four Like earlier someone said earlier, we don't talk about victims. When never talk about victims ever. Ever. It's like you were trafficking. Well, there's been eighty four bills in two years, but what sixty percent have passed, Really? What does it come down to? This is a rule for a reason, if you wanna fix it, let's fix it right and do a ride. But for that to happen, the driver just to go through and get a robbery conviction, it it comes down in accountability. There's no accountability right now. But if you're taking someone to commit like that and typically, most crimes, know, someone knew hey, I knew we carried a knife, we cared to gun, where don't have any idea, those are few and far between That's the world where can fantasize all day. I made your arrest. I've helped prosecute the cases. I work games. I worked in homicide. So this is accurate. But you can just talk about it all day, but at what point does the victim make a difference? A bull point is a victim ever matter. That's probably the most frustrating part, the families. What about their families? The the person the suspect he gets to go home, miss Stanley can write to him and see him them and come visit him, put money as books, what it do for the victim? They're the grave. So so at some point, no we gotta fix all this. And I'll tell you what, the chickens are coming home roost. What your initiative in twenty twenty on crime stuff because people are fed up. That's the bottom line. Who do we represent represent everybody, the victims also, but you never hear the victims in here. Everyone can stand up and talk all they want, but when you're in there, looking at a dead body and I did that for many, many years. A lot of dead bodies a lot of victims of violent and crime, but didn't deserve to die. You gotta whole people accountable. You know what you're doing. This really makes no sense. You know, how far are we gonna go? What if it's your family member laying and they dad. Oh, I didn't know. I didn't know. I can't tell you how many interviews I said in on homicide suspects an accomplish is that knew when you really dig down deep and ask them the right question to the right interview, they knew that person We'll subject to that behavior. Thirty seconds. You wanna sit and justify this? If you wanna fix things, fixed things right, don't jam through. We jam through bell we have through a bunch of things, fix it right, have a conversation that gets it done. If you wanna get it done, there's no hurry. Here we are, you know, two days left a session or three days, whatever it is, and we're working on this. There's time to work on this and do it right. But this is doing the wrong way. Our spec for are no bill. Mister Su, you're recognized. Thank you very much. I respectfully rise in opposition to Sp fourteen thirty seven. And let me tell let me tell you why. I don't know how many of you have read any of the committee analyses on this bill. But Clearly, I think we all recognize that the felony murder rule needs to be reformed. And needs to be changed. We've heard several anecdotal examples of how people that had minimal involvement are no showing of intent to commit murder any other serious crime would be convicted of murder under the felony murder rule. But this bill is not the right solution. We need to work on getting this right because this is going to lead to the relief of of of people and this is going to lead to the further pain and suffering of crime victims. Is a reason why the crime victims United of California are opposed to this. If you read, The assembly public Safety committee analysis, it talks about how the bill provides no exception to allow a trial transcript to be used in a ref hearing. So that's going to be to require the calling of all victims, all witnesses, all family members who have been involved in the original case to testify once again to reopen the pain and suffering that they went through through the original case. Next, the bill talks about the analysis talks about how in cases that resolve through a negotiator plea which is the vast majority of all felony cases. No such record exists in terms of transcripts a court record to rely on, and so virtually all participants and these felony murders would qualify life for relief to which they may not be entitled. And last but not least, this bill is placing the burden on the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that petition do not qualify for res resent. So in other words, The presumption is with those convicted of felony murder to be re sentenced This is not the right solution to the problem of felony murders. This will this will lead to the release of those who should not be able release this will this will this goes too far It reopen, it requires crime victims to have to reopen the pain of having to come back to court to testify once again to justify why they feel that the person should be behind bars I ask that we do this right and we reject this bill. Ms gonzalez fletcher recognized. I rise in support of this critical bill because victims do matter. And victims should feel good when we put away their actual killers. But nobody finds peace to put away otherwise less c individuals when somebody is killed. And that has happened again and again, and again. I've venture say any of us who went to law school when we first started criminal law and learned about the felony felony murder role. We're exposed to how archaic and unjust, it could be. I know because the case laws that we saw were always p perplexing. We had to look at how perplexing it was to get through the idea that California actually has this. And some of the things brought up on this floor are little, I think outdated in the analysis because I know that the amendments taken in the appropriation committee allows the Da court to use all materials in all evidence in the case. The burden is on the petition to allow for a case to move forward. And, of course, we've exempted all cases that deal with the killer. So there were amendments taken to some of the concerns. And I understand that there might be concerns because this isn't perfect. We can't ever expect something that's perfect. But I can tell you and if anyone here has has spoken to some of the folks who aren't perfect have made some mistakes in their lives, but would have never killed somebody? Would have never participated in something that resulted in a death. And yet are spending the rest of their lives in jail. Because of what somebody else did. We talked early on this floor about making mistakes when we were younger making mistakes throughout our lives. It's amazing to me because some of us on this floor made mistakes as adults. Been arrested as adults. Their mistakes that are made that should not result in an individual spending the rest of their life in prison for a murder they did not commit, would not commit. Had no intention of being committed and did not participate in helping it be committed except being there, driving a car, being with a loved one. A boyfriend or husband often. This is about justice through the actual victim, because the actual perpetrator should be the one spending the rest of their lives in jail. Too often, we have heard stories about the person who is actually shooting the gun or causing the murder, making a plea deal and the person who might have made some mistakes and should spend time in jail for their mistakes. Spend rest of their life in prison for the actual murder. It doesn't make sense. It's not justice and this should be fixed. I we respectfully asked for my vote. Thank, ms Gonzales fletcher, all debate and discussion having ceased Mr. Medina, you may close. Thank you mister speaker. Thank my colleagues for the discussion to answer my colleague from Sacramento. The burden of proof is initially on the petition to show that they can make a case that they did not kill, intend to kill or act reckless in the crime that they were convicted of. Amendments to the bill make clear that the petition has to set forth a valid argument under penalty of per with evidence from the court record in order to be considered for resent. Sb fourteen thirty seven, will eli, California with England, Ireland, Canada and States such as Arkansas, Hawaii, Kentucky, Massachusetts and Michigan, all who have reformed their murder statues. With Senate Fourteen thirty seven, California has an opportunity to better serve the interest of justice. Sb fourteen thirty seven is a prudent move which can bring needed to the criminal justice system without compromising the safety by holding people accountable for their own actions. I ask you respectfully to vote yes I on fourteen thirty seven. Thank you, mister Medina. And with that, the clerk pull open the role. All members though. Who desire to vote all members voter to desire vote. All members voted decide about. All members vote, the desire to vote. 