Good morning. Lizzie speaking with Ac, California unfortunately, we are in opposition at ab thirty one hundred and twenty nine. We do not oppose gun control measures that protect public welfare and are non discriminatory and fair. Unfortunately, A thirty one hundred twenty nine discriminate against people with a mis with a mis on their record by enact a lifetime ban on anyone with a mis relating to to domestic violence no matter how much time has past no matter what their rehabilitation has been like. This perpetuate the harmful and un found stereotype that someone with criminal conviction is forever dangerous is inherently dangerous. Again, regardless of how much time has passed. I want note that when a police officer has been convicted of domestic violence, they can petition to get their guns back immediately. So under this bill, which does not change that, under this bill and a police officer, convicted of domestic violence could petition to get their gun back. They don't even have to wait ten years. But a civilian would have a lifetime ban. And this ban is not without consequences. If a person who has ever had a and for these crimes comes into the possession of a gun, they can be arrested prosecuted and incarcerated for a felony. This will certainly have disproportionate harm on communities of color according to the department of justice in California, nearly a fourth of the felony arrests or a arrest for felony, gun offenses, or of people who are black, and nearly half were people who are let latino these populations make up six and point a half percent and thirty nine percent of the population in California respectively. So we agree that we need gun control that protects the public. Unfortunately, there's no evidence that this would would do that. There's evidence that ten years, a ten year band is not sufficient. This bill stigma recognizes and discriminate against people who have ever had a mis conviction for one of these offenses and we'll have a disproportionate impact on people of color. And I will note that I recognize the the data presented that of the low rates of reporting of abuse and violence and agree with that, I agree that that's a big problem. This bill does not address that. And instead it it would just have this disproportionate impact on people. So for those reasons we are opposed. Thank you Are there any other witnesses in opposition? Are any questions from committee members? You missed Cam. Thank you. So I have a question I know this is a incredibly personal bill and as a survivor, it's very important that we have uncomfortable conversations like this as it relates to domestic violence. Was wondering if someone could help define for me what possession means for this bill. This bill has nothing to do with position. It's about buying being able to buy it gun. Right? No. It's a lifetime ban owning again. This not possessing and then it's owning again. Well, in my same thing. It's. No if someone is in possession of a gun forty years after a mis conviction for one of these offenses, they can be prosecuted for a felony. Session would probably mean knowing possession. And in terms of criminal substantive criminal law, if somebody sneaks into your office and slips a handgun gotten into your bag, You're not in possession of it. This is pretty much standard criminal but you... If you're knowing possession then you're in possession. But if I'm with someone in a car and the gun is in the car, I don't know that it's in the car, but if we get stopped because I'm black because the tail light is out because I'm black, and someone starts looking in the car and they find it. The Da may more likely than not want to intimate that I know that the gun is in the car because I'm black, because probable cause because that's how they want to Well, I don't wanna make any... I don't wanna cast any versions. But you see where I'm going with the questioning, how are we defining possession because it can mean I I own it, it can mean I know where it is, but it can also mean I just happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time and there's a gun near me and then all sorts of things begin to come to together there. So is there any sort of specific definition or defined scope of what possessed and means for this bill? Well, I think... I mean, it just a serious issue. You're right. I mean, of course, we have the same issue when it comes to possession of a firearm by convicted felon. And so our law enforcement officers and judges ultimately have to deal with that issue in the context cars and so forth all the time. I confess I'm not up to snuff on the case that immediately generally under substantive of law to be in possession of drugs or session of a firearm. You have to know that you have possession of it has to be knowing possession. So the issue that you raised is is a real substantive issue. There's undoubtedly a great deal of established law on it since we have so many prosecution for felony possession of firearm by felon. And we frequently find guns in cars. So I'm sure it's been lit before. I wish Had a more definitive answer for you. Yeah. I would say that that scenario is not an unusual one and is one that that comes up often and people are convicted for felon a possession of firearm. For a gun in their trunk. Okay. Any other questions? Yes, miss K. Thank you. I like to think the author for bringing this bill to this committee. I know that sharing relative experience that have traumatic impact is not easy. And to all the testimony that came in today that agrees with your bill, I also believe that we need to empower those that happen been. Victims of domestic violence. What I appreciate about this bill is that it actually brings California law to federal standards. And I think that's that's what we need to consider here as a policy committee. That we really do need to think about where California currently is where the federal law is and aligning policy in that matter. So thank you again for bringing it to our attention. You me close. Thank you. Mr Tara just so you know that it is discriminating against domestic violence of users. My I have a personal story in my sister a victim of domestic violence and her abuser still harassing her. And not directly because he... He's under a restraining order. But I'm sure as soon as a restraining her order is lifted. There'll be some attempts to to harm her. And so for me, it is personal. And I am discriminating against domestic violence of users because domestic violence is goes un. My sister was brave enough to speak and even because she spoke she's still being harassed. And you know, we can sit it here and talk about, you know, the rights of of the abusers, all we want. What about the rights for the victims? And the danger statistically eighty four La county eighty four point nine percent Of the violent domestic violence are caused by firearms had prior domestic violence mis. I am looking out for the victims. And we also talk about how we are in support of those students that spoke out gun against owning guns. But in this case, we're not supporting that same concept about restricting gun ownership. I respectfully ask for your eye, But for me, this is personal, and I will continue to advocate for victims of domestic violence. And again, I can appreciate the rights of everybody else, but we're the rights of the victims. And like to me, that is the most important domestic violence doesn't see color. Domestic violence doesn't see gender. Domestic violence doesn't see soc economic conditions. And for that, I I'm very passionate about this bill. And I will continue advocating four victims of domestic violence regardless of if it may seem discriminatory against the domestic violence of users. With that, I respect asked for your I vote. Okay. And I know you have your passion about this. And hopefully This discussion had not dev evolved into being toward domestic violence victims. I think that was the intent of the opposition. So at someone who's been part of the domestic Violence who grew up in the best violence. And for the first time I'm sixty one years old. This the first time I've ever mentioned it. I'm sixty one years old. It happened in my family when was seven and it was because I call live. And until they got treatment and until my father and step father learned that what they were doing was rough. To... I have images in my head that sear my head every day every day that I can't get out and when people ask me why am I so close to my mother because we went through that hell together. So this committee, not only. We'll do whatever we can, domestic violence victims. We also wanna make sure we ensure that those two black men, my father and staff father aren't discriminated against either. And that's very important because they did change their life. They did become respectful members of society. They did go the church every day. They did stop doing it. And I think what you're hearing is, let's make sure one we don't discriminate against either one. And we provide an opportunity. Two for me, and I've said this a million times. For me is about implementation. And so as I spoke to you, it's on the books, the federal law taking care of it. And so my my question more importantly than anything else. If there's some some holes in the system where we're not banning. People who have committed domestic violence. If their numbers are going up because we don't have it on the books in California. That's my concern to making sure that we can't implement this in a way that it'll be most effective and have the most impact so that we do make sure that guns do not get in the hands of individuals who are violent period. I don't care if it's domestic. I don't give if the hate crime. I had a bill. Banning hate crime. Mis meet Hate crime individuals from owning guns for ten years, I wanted to make it a lifetime band. And so I get it. I'm with you. I just wanna make sure we... Not only that we implement it that we just don't make laws. I've been on the other side on implementation. We make laws and then is either never really act in a way that fully helps or it's done incorrectly and it causes more harm than good. And that's where we're at. And I need to apologize to the author because I hadn't had enough time so many bills to sit down with you. And figure out a way to make sure that when we implement this, whatever way we need to make sure that this follows along federal law that there are no holes and our fact that it does work with our the system we have for firearms that we do go after And if we have to retrieve guns from people who are domestic violence abusers that we're able to get there, they have guns Want have that discussion, how do we get guns out of dangerous people's hands? I mean, that's really, really, really important. And I believe we can do that if we work together to get to that. I'm not sure if we're there there yet. And so I'm lay off today. Hopefully, we can continue this conversation, but I feel your passion I understand, I'm not voting because I think we're we also got to think of this in a systematic logical way so that whatever this committee approves it makes sense and most important we can get the job done so we can protect not only your family, but every family in California and so that those statistics that you mentioned that they go down or they just don't stay the same and we keep piling law a top of law and top of law and top of law and we have this mound of paperwork, but nothing gets done. Because the implementation part we feel good that we did this. But the implementation part falls short. And that's why and I would love for you to bring this back in next queue, but we'll see what happens today. So I'm laying off today. Thank you. Api Eighty thirty one twenty nine, the motion is due past your appropriation, John Sawyer. Jim sawyer not voting Lucky. Cam dev boating, Kylie, kylie I cork. K not voting, we're not voting. Santiago. Measures on call. Thank you. Thank you. Miss Baker, thirty sixty four item number twenty two. Good morning again members. Thank you. I am pleased to present you today a thirty sixty for. This bill will address the need to better prevent gun violence by failing to repeatedly break our gun laws, repeat offenders. Currently a felon found illegally possessing a firearm in California can be sentenced to sixteen months, two years or three years. And the felon possession of a firearm is not considered a p offense, which means that the fellow who's convicted of this again and again, and again, is not going to see more severe penalties from the judge. The judge is unable to provide more severe penalties for repeat offenders. And no jail time is required for repeat offenders. In practice, what California's law does is slap these offenders on the wrist. Ab three sixty four would raise the sentence for repeat offenders to a term a force, five or six years in prison in jail. If the felon has been found in possession of a firearm. Again, this bill is geared towards repeat offenders. Nothing has changed for those who first time offense, are found to be in possession of a firearm. The higher tri only kicks in if the person once convicted of violating the gun laws, does it again This gives the judges the discretion they need now in order to sentence appropriately those who don't care about our gun. And they repeatedly offend again and again. And right now, members if if you take a moment to think about this, these are folks who've said I don't care what our laws say in California. We have many strict and rigorous gun laws. I've supported almost all of them. And that's why this bill is targeted specifically of those who repeat offenders. It's received bipartisan support. And I'm grateful for bipartisan c authors and respectfully asked for your Iv vote today. In support of the bill is Kd Ferrari from the Contra costa County district attorney's office. Good morning. Mister Chair members I've been on the felony filing desk at the Pittsburgh police department now for two years. I I review all the felony cases that come out of Pittsburgh antioch and Brent. These are general felon. These are the robber, the shootings, the assault, and, of course, the possession of a firearm by A felon in violation at twenty nine eight hundred. There's been so much discussion about gun violence and the senseless loss of lives. And I think what we can I mean, we wanna have the power to stop that? And I think this is one step. One important step is taking the firearms out of the hands of people that shouldn't have them. How does this build do it? It it addresses two critical situations. One is increasing the tri if a defendant is getting sentenced to prison for gun possession. And when I say possession, I mean constructive possession and actual possession, both of which require knowledge that the gun is present. I think we can all agree that Well maybe almost all of us could agree that someone that's been convicted of a felony shouldn't possess the firearm. Maybe I'm I'm a little off on that, but I think that's the view of most Californian. And and people that are caught with firearms that shouldn't have them need to be held accountable how do we send that message and and keep our streets safe? One way to hold them accountable is giving that power back to the judges giving the judges the discretion to and the latitude to appropriately sentence an individual And that's what this gun does. You know, this isn't requiring a mandatory prison sentence. Although I would support that. But I do think that you know right now judges have the latitude on one end of the spectrum to properly sentence a defendant that it's caught with a firearm and has been convicted of a felony. And this happens all the time. People are getting no jail time, They are getting probation sentences. The actual prison sentences are, I would say rare in my county. We have I did a little bit of research. I found a defendant that was just sentenced in January. He had five prior felon and he was caught with a loaded firearm under the seat of his vehicle. He had a gun h taped to his dashboard. So it was just there at the ready. He had methamphetamine and a meth pipe on his person and a nine year old son in the backseat seat and five prior felon. He received probation in a six month jail sentence. So that end of the spectrum is covered. It's covered in my county. But what have you have you know, another example might be somebody that has a really old conviction, a felony for cocaine possession. And that person is caught with a firearm and they have no criminal record between that conviction in the eighties of the cocaine possession. And now they're caught with the five firearm. I mean, the judge has the discretion to appropriately sentence that person. But now at the other end of the spectrum, how about the violent felon that was convicted of, you know, domestic violence or is repeatedly caught with a firearm again, and again, the most that person can get is three years of of state prison, and that is served at fifty percent So we're talking about eighteen months, an eighteen months sentences the most that that person can get. So I think that we need to protect public safety. Another way this bill does it is talking about mis people that misuse weapons misused firearms at the Mis level, shooting at an inhabited dwelling, assault or brandi a firearm in the presence of a police officer Those are mis where people should not be able to just have the ten year ban. So I think that's another important addition that this bill brings for public safety. So people in closing people that have committed felon, they shouldn't you know, that have shot in people's homes have brandi firearms around police shouldn't be permitted to ever have a firearm public safety demands this. So if we wanna to talk about reducing gun violence, I think we need to give the the judges the discretion to keep our community safe. And I thank you for your for bill. Sorry. Thank you. Are any other witnesses in support? Mr Chairman members thank you, Roy Griffith, the California rifle and pistol association standing strong with law enforcement and das of the state and strong support of this bill. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Tiffany Matthews these on behalf of the California District attorney's Association and support. Thank you. Chairman members Jonathan Development, California police Chief Association and support. Thank you. Sean rhonda with the California Peace Officers Association it's Support. Thank you. Good morning, mr Sharon members Corey Sal on behalf of the California's State Sheriff's Association and support. Thank you. Tim Mc man strong support. Thank you. Any witnesses in opposition. 