Good morning, mr Baron Members of the Committee. How are you? Good. Cathy Lynch representing the National Shooting Sports Foundation. We represent manufacturers and dealers and we're not opposition to this bill The industry is already very heavily regulated at both the federal and state level. California law does currently authorize inspections, so you don't need a bill to do that. The inspection cycle that would be mandated is actually detrimental to public safety because it doesn't allow for good inspection planning and if they know that there's troubled spots, It puts a strain on their resources. And it was suggested by the author staff that Doj wanted this bill. If that in fact is true, then that would suggest one of two things. One that this bill is really about raising revenue and increasing the cost of doing business by increasing fees and we should have an honest conversation. If that's what it's about, it would increase it from ninety five dollars to hundred and fifteen. A lot of these are small businesses. And... And otherwise, it would suggest that Doj needs a level of oversight in the firearms division that maybe we need to top down review if they can't manage on doing their inspections. We know they'd struggled might way with the arm prohibited persons program over the years and that's been a strain on their resources and I would suggest that perhaps we take a deeper look if they need to be toll powell and when to do inspections. Thank you. Thank you. Chairman members Sam is representing Gun on California. And our concern is over the provision of the the mandatory three year inspection of all dealers, we did the calculations and based on the number of dealers there are. And if they were The inspectors were to take a minimal amount of time to conduct inspections and we know that some dealers take literally weeks to do and some are accomplished in a very short period of time. It would take a staff of several trained inspectors, probably our estimates are somewhere between four and five years working three sixty five days a year in order to conduct those inspections. Right now, Doj has the authority to conduct as many inspections as often as they want to of any dealers and what we have seen is that they when they identify a troubled dealer that they inspect them regularly, if not more often than that. But for a lot of dealers who have proven throughout history, that their records are absolutely clean. They are they have earned the trust of the department of justice and and the inspectors. And Doj takes a little bit of longer in order to conduct in inspection. They still conduct the inspections. But if they were to find that there's an issue, then they conduct them more often. But this is gonna to put Doj into a box that is people do not understand what goes on in in an inspection. How do I know mister Chairman, as I pointed out here. I'm a licensed firearms dealer in the state of California, and I have had Doj and Bat inspections of my very small books and it is very time consuming. This is this is needless to accomplish any sort of law enforcement purpose. Everything happens in this law, we believe puts the Department of justice into a box that they don't need to be put into. For those reasons, gun orange California as opposed to this bill. Thank you. Thank you. Any other witnesses that opposition? Chairman members of the committee, craig Lose Path finance policy coalition. We like the previous versions bill, but unfortunately, with the with the requirements for the inspections we're going to have to oppose. Thank you Thank you. Mister Chairman, we're not opposed to any of the other provisions of the bell I neglected to say that. Thank you. Thank you for the clarification. Any questions from committee members? Yes, mister Kylie, and mr Lack. My concern is The burden that this is gonna place on Doj as considerable. I don't think anybody can argue that. And I've just learned that the allocation from budget of five, was denied conference. And so I have concerns over the priority and the actual implementation that is actually going to be able to be carried out, and that's my biggest skill. We have not received any pushback from Doj on this, I believe the three year framework came directly from them in the conversation with senate appropriation. And so we're not hearing from them that this is going to create a burden at all. So if that helps. K. Thank you. Good morning, senator. So I really wish these were two different bills because I I'm very supportive of the first part. On the second, do you have any sense of what the kind of existing frequency of inspections is and whether or not there are issues out there with licensed fire dealers that are not being identified because the inspections are not sufficiently frequent. Are I don't have the actual statistics, but we've panicked anecdotally been told that it's a problem that needs to be five and Doj is so this is the framework that has come out of that. So dealers are not being inspected. I mean, that's the bottom line. If they were, we wouldn't be bringing the bill forward. Was there a common to add from... Well I just said that a few years ago, we did a public record request on dealer violations just for the top five dealers in their violations, and I was rather astounded at how long the list was. So clearly the violations happen. Just wanna to make that point. And how do we know what violations aren't how if the inspections aren't happening. So the whole idea of focusing the effort a little difficult to do if you don't know where you need to focus. Second. Thank you, mr P Senator. A few things when I support this of concept and I have a few follow ups. But can you maybe I'm not regular on this committee sub today. So my understanding reading real quick is that the fee structure to address the issue of staffing department of justice is is addressed and the licensing fee would increase by twenty bucks roughly. And and we think that would cover right. The staffing issues at the Department of Justice. Right. Right. Again, this is not an exorbitant increase. It's not an exorbitant amount, but there's a lack of oversight and this solves that problem. And I don't think that's unreasonable, you know, many businesses and with with with lower public safety issues are inspected on a regular basis. Do you know often Californian specs nail Salons in California? I do not know, but I think I bet you'd know every year. And the dangers of Nail salons, one thing and the dangers which could go wrong, when somebody you know, theft and oversight and security and all kinds of issues issues with licensed gun dealers, are well documented. So I don't think this is an unreasonable issue and I think that there's a nexus here based upon what we have seen in California side support this measure. Thank you. Thank you. And you make close. No, I assembly member did a very good job. This is not onerous. This is needed and it the cost is not exorbitant and when we're dealing with public safety and we pride ourselves that we have great approaches to public safety and gun ownership. We should have inspections that our commensurate with what we've done in the past. So I respectfully the asked when I vote. And and I want to think my colleagues could basically you asked the questions that I had and you got the answers that satisfied to me that we need to go forward that and I also was with mister Lack and trying to get funding for Doj for a myriad to different things including cannabis and didn't move forward and we were very disappointed in that. The fact that there's a funding stream not coming from general fun, it helps a lot. The fact that Doj has not pushed back and so they couldn't do it. And that you actually... You know, this is my thing, I say over and over again, talk to the people who have to implement it. And then you put it into law. Right instead of the instead I was trying to force it on them. So knowing it was really important to know that when it went to senate that that question was proposed to Doj right. And they didn't fill in any problems with it. And then finally, the fact that nail can do it every year. We need to move this on with that call the rule. Sb p seven forty six the motion is due pass as amended to the Appropriation committee John Sawyer. Your Lack Not voting. Kylie, kylie no Quirk. Weber. Builds on call one more. Senator of Bell, Sb two five item number one. Whenever you're ready, senator thank you, Chairman. I present Sb two one five. This is first of all, at least a third of California people in California's deals and prisons suffered from mental illness. You know it's interesting we found just between last year and this year, four thousand five hundred additional people were identified with mental illness in the state prison system, just in one year an increase of forty thousand five hundred. That's a very large prison facility just in one year, mental ill individuals. So the status quo is very costly ineffective, unfair dangerous and we need to take some intervention for ourselves actually. So this bill provides trial courts with the discretion to order immediate treatment for a person who commits a minor offense. We begin last year work on this with Sba and we work with the stakeholders and good faith over the last year. We started with Sba. So this has been about a three year three year process. And we have a bill that now has no opposition that we know of. Sb two one five has a more narrow scope than we had last year. It includes more involvement by the prosecution making the diversion process collaborative process and efficient to implement it allows but does not require a trial court to place a qualifying low level defendant in a preexisting existing mental health program. The diversion programs are not automatic. They require that the defense show that the offense was caused by a mental illness. The defense also has to secure treatment that is available and appropriate. The judgments consider the opinions of the prosecution defense and the interest of the community before considering diversion. The diversion will only be permitted if a mental health treatment program already exists and has been accepted by the defendant. In other words, while counties are free to put more money into treatment often options. If they like the results of a diversion program, they are never required to do so. This bill is targeted towards people with untreated mental illness, trapped in the streets to jail cycle and whose first opportunity for help is often found only when they get in trouble. So they they have no they're untreated, they're on the streets and then they really don't get help until they get arrested for something. And It has the potential to prevent the escalation of untreated mental illness in our community and also increasing preventing unrestricted mentally people getting into criminality The bill will result in cost savings at the state and local level by making the most most of the treatment options we now have in our communities You know when you put somebody in a prison or a jail, a hundred percent of the cost is borne by the either the state or the county that has the jail facility, whereas if you have a treatment program in the community, you... The person will be eligible usually for a medical medical program or other kinds of Medicaid if they're considered disabled. So there is a cost savings it's much more efficient. A defendant with untreated mental illness is more likely to require expensive county emergency services if they're untreated, such as hospitalization or ambulance in the future. When I hospital committee and Santa clara County. We were running about fifteen thousand dollars for a person going into our emergency Emergency office, Emergency Hospital, and that's very expensive to wait until somebody has that situation with mental illness. So criminal records. You have a crown record, you're less likely to find employment or housing, increasing the likelihood of these defendants we rely on some kind of public assistance. So if we do these diversion programs, we could avoid that eventual that somebody will be just permanently on public assistance. It gives our courts another tool to break the streets to jail cycle And communities are safer. Also when a illness people get access to treatment and support We have the dean of the drug drug and Mental Health courts in California with us today, judge Stephen Man. And I'll turn it over to Judge Man and then we'll have Nick stuart out in from of the public Defender Association. That's my. This is mister Chairman. I to welcome our judge judge to the committee. Thank you, Senator. I have been a rental health court judge for many years. I work with hundreds of mentally yellow offenders every week. And I have noted we all have noted across California dramatic increase in a number of individuals with mental illness who are in our jail. The process now takes a long time to try and reach them and get them into treatment because they need to be convicted or the charges need to be dismissed. This bill would allow us to work with them upfront earlier in the process. And it would mean that we could get them into the appropriate treatment as opposed to leaving them in the jail where treatment is minimal the likelihood of medication is not high. And the jail are overwhelmed. We're trying to work with these very ill metal offenders. Who would be better served out in the community in treatment. And I think that the safeguards are written into this bill the senator has carefully talk to all the stakeholder groups. And this would give us an opportunity to move appropriate people out of the criminal justice system and into treatment at the earliest point possible. What I have noted over the years is this. That greatly just disturb me, individuals who are kept in jail who are mentally ill get worse. They do not get better. While in jail. Then they are released with no plan, nothing in place and they reaffirmed immediately and arrested again their homeless back on the streets and then back to jail or in our emergency rooms in a my community, if you're in the emergency room, you put on the street and the only place you can go is the jail. What this would do is let's allow the courts. To take a hard look at individuals early on and decide whether or not this is someone who would benefit from diversion and number two would benefit from treatment that they're mentally ill and the crime is connected as a nexus to the mental illness. And I think that that would be a dramatic change in what we are doing now and I think it would be a change for the better and help those or mentally ill get out of our system and reduce rec and the terrible costs that our g and our counties have to pay to inca them. Thank you. You may begin give a motion from both sides of the eye. So So so I can be extremely short with chair because I can read between lines sometimes. Nick zeroed out on behalf, not only California public defender Association, but also today on behalf of Los Angeles County. I've talked this committee about this issue before so I won't repeat myself except to say this you have before you bipartisan bill with Republican and Democratic c authors. It passed out of the senate unanimously. I have been a public defender working with the most vulnerable population in California the mentally ill for the past decade, and this is the most substantial piece of mental health reform I have ever seen. And unsurprisingly to me because I've been working siri it is uno. So I would urge this committee to support it. It is time to stop killing our own citizens. Thank you. Thank you. And witnesses support. Good afternoon Lean Clark harvey on behalf of the California Council of Community Behavioral Health agencies and strong support. Thank you. Just gates on behalf of Los Angeles County and support. Thank you. Gia today on behalf of the Alameda County border supervisors Forth. Thank you. Morning, Sean Hoffman at the California District attorney's Association. We don't have an official support position did want say we appreciate senator Bell and his staff and stakeholders working to address our issues and we very much prefer this to the trailer bill legislation that is pending. Emily Child on behalf of the Ac of California and support. Thank you. Angela lake Go with National Association of Social workers in support. Thank you. Esp news with the ant coalition and support. Thank you, sir. Marco George for the California Public Defenders Association, C sponsor and in support. Thank you. David Ray from anti, coalition and support. Thank you. You strict to anti we set at vincent call coalition I support. Thank you. Her child disability rights, California and support. Thank you. Any witnesses in opposition? Cnn none or any questions from committee members? Yes, mr Lap. Yeah. We've kind of got a little bit of a chuck of the remarks that were made earlier about the trailer bill, but I'm glad now in this discussion policy committee. There have been discussions as we know of another version that's going to be utilized through the budget process. And I believe this proposal to be more supportive of public safety. And so for that reason, I'll be supporting this bill and hope that the author might consider working with our administration, to ensure that this version is signed into law as opposed to the other one. And so for that purpose, I'll be supporting this bill. Thank you, mister. Lack. Are any question for comments, you make close senator bell. Urgent I vote on this bill. Thank you. And obviously you've done your you've done your work. You got bipartisan and support. So I love it when we bipartisan support. So thank you for all your work and I an I vote call the roll. S two fifty seen the motion is due pass as amended to the appropriation committee John Sawyer. Kylie, Kylie I quirk, Weber, weber I. That med passes. Thank you. Thank you. And then finally Gal Sp eleven sixty three, item number eleven, our last item for today. Thank you, mister Sharon members. This bill seeks to do two things. I know you've actually read the analysis in the bill so I will make this short and I would like to spend my time talking about the reason for the bill But again, the bill does two things. It requires that an autopsy of an unidentified person or unidentified remains be conducted by someone who is either a physician or a board certified forensic pathologist. Second, it requires that any of human remains in an incident where it is deemed to be likely to have occurred under a criminal act. That recovery of that vaccination is to be also done under the direction of a board certified forensic pathologist. Back in my district in two twenty twelve, we had the remains recovered of three individuals from a well in city of Linden and we had additional remains recovered in the county of Cal County. We had two active serial killers at that time Wesley And Loren Her who were active between nineteen eighty four, nineteen eighty four and nineteen ninety eight. Six of their victims were recovered. And those were victims who were murdered in nineteen eighty four eighty five, a thirteen year gap and one more recovered in nineteen ninety eight. Wesley Sherman has been writing to myself and others for since two thousand and twelve when the original remains were recovered. And that was done at a time where there wasn't a a real clear path on how that should have been done and there were mistakes that were made. The recovery was made with a bull in London, crushing the remains of the victims that were recovered from the well. In addition in Cal county after the original recovery, wesley Sherman was riding multiple letters about where the rest of the remains were for Cindy Van He and those letters that were written to me were intercepted by law enforcement and a day after she... Her parents gave permission for her cremation The Sheriff's department and Sam King County went out quietly without notifying the family or the public or anybody else and did a second recovery. Of Cindy Van He and recovered more of her remains. That was done without the consultation of doctor. Uma, dr. Ben From the Con concussion Movie. He was our chief medical pathologist our chief medical examiner at the time. And all of that was done without consulting with him at all. All of the remains were collected up and they were all sent off for cremation as Cindy Van He. The problem is that because the chief medical examiner was not present and it was not done without any any protocol at all. And the remains were not Dna tested as they should have been. The weight of the remains that were supposedly for Cindy van He, weighed fifty eight pounds. And the normal skeletal remains weight for one person is twenty percent of our body weight. And it was a partial recovery of Cindy van He remains because other remains of hers had been recovered earlier. That meant that there were two, three, four individuals remains that were all cr together. And named as Van. And to this day, there are missing persons their families who have been missing them and wait and follow up on every lead, They don't know whether they're missing loved ones remains were cr along with Cindy van He. There are more locations with remains. And this is not something that happens often enough that we've given our attention to unidentified remains of individuals. But this is not over because there were other locations and there are many families who are still waiting. And Wesley Sherman continues to write and provide maps. To where the locations are of missing loved ones. And I wanna to make sure that we get this right. I have laid opposition from the corners association. I welcome them to work with me to get this right because there will be other recoveries and we don't want a situation like we've had before. There is an existing lawsuit by one mother, the mother of sixteen year old Joanne H, who was recovered in the well. And her remains were c with that of Kimberly Billy who went missing in nineteen eighty four and also comm ming with remains of an unidentified african American woman and her baby. Who Wesley Sherman says both murdered in nineteen eighty five. So my point here is that we need to get this right because this is not over, and this will continue to happen. And while the corners association may have some amendments that they would like to take, I would ask that they work with me so that we can get this right because this recovery effort is going to continue. I respectfully asked for your. Thank you. There any other witnesses in support? Marco George from the California public Defender association and support. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any witnesses in opposition? Mr Chair members Corey Sells on behalf of the California State Corners association. Our our opposition is, I think to some of the technical parts of the bill, and I wanted to point a few of those out to you today. So the bill inserts the term attending physician and surgeon throughout the statute And from the practitioners that we represent, that's going to create confusion that that term attending physician and surgeon is the term that is used to refer to basically any medical doctor who carries a license. And so it sort of switches away from the attempts at specialization that have been sought in this area of corners and medical examiners and that sort of thing in the past by saying basically, any medical doctor can undertake some of the tasks that are undertaken here. So I think there needs to be some further discussion about the confusing nature of that terminology. The bill requires that forensic pathologist directly oversee the of unidentified remains or remains that are thought to be the product of a criminal act. We think it's unnecessary that the doctor herself for himself be at the site of the, there are ways to supervise that process that we don't think it's necessary that medical doctor go stand. While this... While these activities are taking place, there are ways to oversee that. The bill grants the pathologist the authority to retain the services of an ant anthropologists during the dependency of a death investigation. That may be appropriate, but in some governance structures, the pathologist does not have budgetary budgetary authority and they often report to a department head and that department head should be the one who makes the decision as to how to spend money in terms of making that decision to hire a pathologist. It's also unclear why the physician herself for himself should be required to retain samples of tissues and bone as it's contemplated by this bill. And not saying that that's a bad practice or we shouldn't do that but it's unclear why the doctor himself herself should be undertaking that. So I think there are a lot of technical issues with the bill we're opposed to it. We're willing to work with the author to continue discussions. But there are some some very confusing and problematic terminology and references in the bill. Thank you. Thank you. Witnesses in position. Just Gates La County. And first, I would like to thank the author's office for continuing to work with us we're currently in a pose unless amended. And our main concern is a more of a workload issue. We we certainly honor respect the intent of the author's office, but our concern which was raised by the La County coroner office is that as written, the bill does not allow for new newly appointed forensic pathologist to conduct these and currently they're able to do so with the supervision of a certified for pathologist. So we would just ask you know that the all office continue to work with us. And so we can have, you know, the the the proper add adequate workload to able to accomplish the goal of this legislation. Thank you. Thank you. And and we will be taking those amendments. Okay. Thank you clarifying case. Any other questions? You may close. Thank you. And again, to the coroner association, I really do want to work with you to get this right We have the remains of the unidentified woman are still present and they have been comm ming with others. And we have made sure that her remains were not cr. But again, there's more to there's more to do and we wanna make sure that what has happened in the past doesn't happen again going forward. And I will finally note that the requirement to retain tissue samples is an existing law has been for a number of years. And we're just clarifying that department is not required to keep an entire jaw boom, but rather tissue samples as opposed to actual bones because of the advancements in science. Okay. I respectfully asked for your vote. Thank you. And it sounds like from the coroner office association that the author I I believe she's sincere and obviously, you know, this is very personal for her. And and and I know if anyone in this room wanna get it right, she does. And so I would encourage you to continue to work with her to iron out some clarifying language in the bill so that we can move this forward. Because it's very important to get it, as you said to get it right. And then also to make sure that always say not to create some burden on government that they can't fulfill, especially another governmental agency. And so I think we can work do that to ensure that we can move forward. So shares in a high boat. Sb eleven sixty three the motion is due passed to the Appropriation committee John Sawyer. Kylie, Kylie I quirk, Weber, weber. Measure passes. Would do the add ons andy on calls. Because sergeant call the absent members. Good call absent members to public Safety Committee. On item number two, Sb four thirty nine, this measure was on call that measure passes. From. Item number three sb b seven forty six Weber weber I. Item number five, sb b nine twenty three Weber, weber I. Item number a b eleven zero six weber weber I. Item number fifteen, sb thirteen forty six, Weber, weber I. That's it for That's it for you dr. Weber and ms Cor. Waiting for this cardiac. Item number one sb two fifteen, Mccarthy, Hi. Mccartney I Cork, Kirk absent. Item number two s four thirty nine. Mccarthy Mccarthy I. Item number three, sb seven forty six, that item has been dispensed with. Item number four was on consent. Item number five has been dispensed with. Item number six was on consent item a number seven was on consent. Item a number eight has been dispensed with. Item number nine s b eleven forty six by senator stone, Mccarthy. No. A know on reconsider consideration? Yes. I Cardiac. Number... Item number ten as eleven sixty was pulled by the author. Item eleven s eleven sixty three, Mccarthy. I. Item number twelve s eleven ninety nine, Mccarthy. Cardi I. At a number thirteen on consent item fourteen on consent. Item fifteen has been dispensed with. Item sixteen was on consent. Item seventeen thirteen ninety three, Mccartney Mccarthy I. Thank you. Thank you and that jones Public safety committee. 