Members, again, we're grateful for your patience. Center Skinner is going to be taking up file item one twenty four we're then gonna lift the call and then we're gonna go back to file item thirty four and work the file. Mr Secretary, can you please read file item one twenty four? Senate, fourteen thirty seven by senator Skinner and Acr Murder. Good afternoon, Skinner. Thanks so much. Mr President Members. Last year, We had a resolution before us, which talked about this old English common law practice of felony murder rule which has can very broad be very broadly applied to sweep up anyone who is at or around, the committing of a felony that results in a death They can be swept up and charged with felony murder. And in that resolution, we addressed the different court cases that have d the fact that various of our states including California have not appropriately defined our murder statute so this broad sweeping does not occur. That resolution had over thirty senators voting in support. What I bring before you today with Sb sp fourteen thirty seven is the ability to refine our murder statute, so that it can appropriately fit the crime that is committed. And it would align California with states like Arkansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio that have also rewritten their murder statute to reflect this application. Now, S fourteen thirty seven does not let murders off the hook. It retains liability for anyone who actually committed a murder who aided a killing who planned to killing or even acted with reckless during the crime. What Sb fourteen thirty seven is designed to do is to protect individuals like this particular woman who is now serving a life sentence in California's state prison, her initials are Vi, and I will relay to you the circumstances of her sentence and her charge. Vi was renting to someone a room in the back of her house. That renter had a ongoing argument with their mutual neighbor. The renter repeatedly threatened to harm Vi and her elderly father who lived with her if she would not inform him or if she did not inform him when the neighbor returned tone. Fearing for her and her father, Vi informed the renter that the neighbor had returned home. As soon as she heard the fighting that then ensued, between her renter and the neighbor, she rushed out went to the aid of the neighbor, even drove the neighbor to the hospital. Unfortunately, that neighbor did not survive. Vi did not know that the intended to commit that action of harm against the neighbor. She did her best to intervene and to save his life and yet, she was charged under the felony Murder rule and was sentenced in twenty five years to life. Now in addition, to appropriately fixing our murder statute, so that it would not apply in cases such as that. It also establishes fourteen thirty seven, a process for reset. And I've taken amendments from our California Da Association on a number of points, especially on the sentencing portion to address their concerns. And with that, I ask for your eye vote on Fourteen thirty seven. Thank you, Skinner. Do have any discussion or debate senator Stone, and we're gonna turn it over to Senator Wiener and then Senator Anderson. Cy stone, Thank you, mr President and I know that the California district attorney's Association is still in opposition. I'm not sure if they still are with the amendments. I hope that the author will raise that issue in her closing statement. But based on what I do know, I'm rising in opposition this before thirty seven while I certainly understand the author's intent, I feel this bill goes a bit too far and raises some serious questions. Because the bill can be applied retroactively, there will be a number of unintended consequences. What if a murder conviction comes not from a jury, but as a result of a plea bargain, As the California district attorneys rightfully point out, under the provisions of this measure, a resent hearing will be necessarily required with a full court record, including transcripts and exhibits to determine the exact level of participation in the crime in order to determine whether a particular defendant is in fact entitled to relief. In cases that are resolved through a negotiated plea, no such record exists. And virtually all participants and murder may qualify for relief to which they may not be entitled. Additionally, This bill requires a prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the criminal falls into one of the categories that preclude reset. Once again, in cases that are resolved through a negotiated plea deal, the absence of a full court record will necessarily prevent the people from establishing beyond a reasonable doubt whether a petition is excluded. This could mean that just about any criminal petitions, even those who were major participants in a crime which resulted in death. Could be entitled to res resent and the elimination of their sentence. Members, this bill goes way too far. And I think that's a very dangerous president. For those reasons I would urge you to vote know s before thirty seven. Thank you, Center stone. Senator wei. Thank you very much for president. I rise in strong support of Sv sp fourteen thirty seven. The bill is long overdue the felony murder rule is dramatically too broad and it is sweeping up people who may have committed a crime but they should not be guilty of murder. It's ruining people's lives rather than rehab them and we should definitely pass this bill and I want to thank the senator from Berkeley for bringing forward. Thank you, Sun. Anderson, they're going to go to Senator Nielsen, Senator Anderson. Senator look, we've all heard a read the case where somebody goes with buddies to seven eleven. And somebody runs in to get slur for a everybody in the car, and then there's a gunshot someone dies. And they're all charged with pulling the trigger. But the driver and the friends in the car had no idea the crime was gonna occur. But they're addressed under this law and we know that to be wrong. It's not fair. Even if they knew and they thought, that they were going be shop lifting, but never understood that a weapon was gonna be taken in and used or discharged taking someone's life. But their charge and as if they had pulled the trigger. On the flip side, We've also read and learned that some people plot in cold blood that they're gonna to go to seven eleven, they're gonna to kill the witnesses and they're going to steal. And they should be charged, but they're all lumped together. This bill sets out to separate the two to give real justice to those who were active participants in the murder of another. Now having said that, I'm I'm supporting the bill, but when I heard the testimony in public safety, and it was riveting, They talked about, well, this is retroactive in some people plea bargain, and there wouldn't be evidence because it was never one to trial. So how do we determine that? Well may I ask a question of the author. Skinner, would you accept the question from Senator Anderson? Yes, I will. Please proceed. So senator So Madam math, you you are presenting with this issue. And I know I spoke to you afterwards that this was a major issue was not intended And I know you've taken amendments. Can you explain those amendments and how that addresses this specific issue? Yes. Thank you for that question. So there were a number of amendments that we took in the Probes committee, most of them, we took as a result of our discussions, with the legislative committee of the California Da Association. Specifically, your question regarding res reset, but let me to described the three amendments two of which have to do with res sentencing. The first amendment I will describe, which does not have to do with res sentencing clarifies there is we still have on the books. Accessory to murder accomplished to murder But there are those circumstances where an aiding and a bedding depending on the nature of it, should still allow for a first degree or second degree murder charge and the bill is originally drafted was perhaps too narrow. So we accepted an amendment that broadened the provisions to ensure that anyone who aided or embedded a murder would still be eligible for a first or second degree murder charge. Now on the reset portion, these are the things we did. We clarified that certain people would be ineligible for the sentencing portion of the bill due to being a... For example, an older person directing a younger person in the crime or mastermind the crime or some provisions like that. We second flipped the burden of proof so that the petition would have to prove why they were eligible under this bill, fourteen thirty seven four res sensing rather than the prosecution. So the burden has to be on that petition and it addressed the concerns of our district attorneys that the original bill placed the burden on the Da. To show that the petition was ineligible. So we flip that burden of proof and those are the amendments we are taking. And we are still working very closely with that ledge committee. We were hopeful for a support position, but there there's a few things we may still have to address but we are very close. Thank you On my own time. Please. Senators. So in the case of the person who simply going to the locals quick mart for a slur who's driving this would allow them to be appropriately sentenced because they had no knowledge the crime. Yet on the flip side, if they were part of planning and they had knowledge that that they were going in with the intent. I'm killing somebody or had the potential killing somebody. They still could be charged with murder one or Two. I think this strikes that balance. In the case of retroactive, it's up to the incarcerated person to make the case of why they should be under consider in consideration. Now one of the concerns I had was, well, they plea bargain, so never went to trial. Well there's still a record of evidence. It's all in the police documents. In the charging documents of when they went to him them initially and said, we're gonna charge you with this because we believe that you're guilty, that evidence is still there. That evidence is still pertinent. So that person who's incarcerated will have to overcome that burden in order to be considered. It is a heavy burden that they have to overcome. So I'm confident there are some minor adjustments that still need to come our way. But I'm confident that the author in I'm a joint author in this bill So I'm very confident with my joint author that it will be addressed moving forward. But the major issues, the major ripple effect there was such a problem that that had this spill in such up upheaval. Jerry, would you like to say something I know you acting now stuff, Do you have something to hide? So I believe that we overcome a lot in and I think this bill is worthy of support, Eric I vote. Thank you, mr Senator. Dean in the senate, Senator Nielsen. Thank you, mister President, Ladies and gentlemen with the Senate. What this doesn't overcome is a crime of murder. Someone or people, many our dead as a result of this behavior. There already is a criteria. The individual had to know the perpetrator. They knew that they intended to commit such crime, And by their words of their conduct, they would obviously have knowledge of being part. It isn't just because you you just happened to be riding along in the car. And the guy just jumped out and started shooting and killed somebody. It's a lot more than that. That test in that bar is high. Now, I respect the Das and I though if they've under a lot of pressure to look at things differently these days. But this is also a part of the plea bargain is an issue. Pre Bargain means they fled to something lesser. Than could have been charged. That happens with regular. And one of the most disturbing aspects of this particularly regarding the activity, is facts now being every number of years later or even at the time. For the resent portion of this. Facts now considered that we're not lit at the time. Now what in part does that mean? A trial the victims have standing. And for a number of reasons over recent years, the standing of the victims of heinous atrocious crimes have lesser standing. In these proceedings as well as in parole proceedings. I dare this bill does not say that the victims can come back at this so called res resent. I would hope it does. Maybe that would be one of the amendments that can be in the future taken. I respect the author too and I command the intent. To work with the opposition. I will only say because of the nature of the seriousness of this behavior I do believe we ought not take another step. Thy novo. Thank you, Senator. Senator. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, mr President. Sometimes you sort of wish you had the wisdom of solomon, some of these bills today on dealing with issues of severity. But sometimes you have to separate the week from the cha when people are charged with a crime and you can't have everybody caught in the gil net. Oh man. Be suffering serious penalties. So mister mister President, I think we need to provide judges with flexibility. And on the issue of activity, of course, you provide retro activity because once you've modified You should give that benefit to those before. So I urge an I vote mister President. Thank you. Thank you so much, Senator. Em bruce, we'd like to make to see if there's any additional discussion or debate on the floor. Any additional discussion or debate on the floor Madam senator would you like to close, please? Thank you. Mr President and I think we had a good discussion and just to close it I'm Remind you that S p fourteen thirty seven does not abolish the Felony Murder rule and it retains Liability for anyone who killed, aided the killing plan the killing or even acted with reckless during the crime and I ask for your vote. Thank you madam senator, mister Secretary, can you please call the role? Alan hi Anderson, atkins, I bates, no bell, I Barry Hill. No. Bradford? Cane. I, daily. I I fuller, no gains, no Ga johnny. Gl. I Her hernandez is. I hurts for hill I whistle. Jackson, Aye Lat, I. I am mcguire, I mitchell. I morning. I'm Warlock. I'm, no newman, No. Win, no, Nelson. No pan, port. Roth, ice skinner, ice stern. Stone, no, deck, no. Eye winner, I wi. No. Mr Secretary, can you please call the apps and members? Bradford, Gal. Hi. Port? Stern. Alright. Eyes twenty six, knows eleven, the measure passes. Members. In about sixty seconds, we're going to lift the call on five bills. We're going to start from the back and then go to the front. We're going to start with file item seventy nine, then we're gonna go to item twenty seven thirty three, eighty six and thirty seven. Please give us sixty seconds. But we will be right back with you.