Go ahead center for Right. Thank you. Madam Chair members. Today, I'm presenting Eleven hundred, which prohibits any person from making an application to purchase more than one firearm within a thirty day period. The bill would also importantly prohibit the sale of any by licensed dealer to any person below the age of twenty one years old. In addition, because of the interaction of state and federal receivers or frames, the Gun minus the barrel are also applicable to the thirty day purchase period. While handgun are using in the majority of gun deaths, long guns have been used to many of the largest mass shootings in the U. S. History, including the recent tragic events that took place in San Bernardino, California. California is home to the most stringent gun laws in the country proudly. One example is requiring an individual to be twenty one years of age in order to purchase a handgun. Another is the general limitation on gun dealer delivery of one handgun to an individual in a thirty day period. Since these laws have taken effect, the data shows there have been a successful reduction in the incidence of gun trafficking while not burden legitimate gun owners or persons who wish to acquire guns. In order to be uniformly consistent, California should apply the thirty day delivery period and twenty one year age limit to long guns. Over the past ten years, Californian have typically purchased more long guns than handgun. Of the twenty six thousand six hundred and eighty two guns used in crimes that were entered into the California Department of justice automated firearm system database, eleven thousand five hundred were long guns. Preventing the flow of guns is important to public safety regardless of whether the firearm is a handgun or a long gun or purchase new from a dealer or through a private party transaction. Limiting firearm sales to one gun per month is a recognized strategy to reduce gun trafficking and keeping firearms out of dangerous hands. And on a personal note, just watching what happened in Florida, the parents and the rally cry of young people who have been engaged in this movement and driving all of us to do better out of respect for those young people in Florida, I would respectfully ask is committed to past this. And with me today. I have Amanda Wi cox from the California chapter of the Brady campaign to prevent gun violence on behalf of B eleven hundred. Thank you. Miss Brady may speak. I mean, miss Wi. Sorry. Yeah. It's early. Very early as husband refers to me as missus Brady, I was probably just going there. Again, amanda Wi cox on behalf of the twenty eight chapters, California chapters of the Brady campaign of prevent con violence. We are in support of Sb eleven hundred In general, our view is that handgun and long guns should be treated the same under California law and we've been slowly accomplishing that over the years. I think initially view that long guns are my grandfather Shotgun in the corner of the closet to deal with wildlife whatever. But now as we saw from here, the modern day sporting rifle is a high powered semi automatic that is just as lethal or more lethal been a handgun gun and sadly seemed to be the common weapon, the weapon of choice for some of these horrific mass shootings. And so clearly the laws to reduced violence with handgun should apply to long guns as well. In terms of raising the minimum age for long guns to twenty one, I I won't go over the all the statistics in my letter except to point out that individuals age eighteen to twenty compromise only forty excuse me, only four percent of the population, but commit seventeen percent of gun sides. So there's a disproportionate involvement of youth under age twenty one in gun violence. And know many youth are responsible many are not. And I think this is recognized in other areas. For example, someone under twenty one cannot rent a car, by alcohol, can't by handgun, it seems to be common sense that also applied to long guns. And then the other provision regarding capping the number of sales of long guns making it applied to off firearms to in a thirty day period. This is a policy that's been before you before. Twice to bill that we have sponsored. Again, if this is to match hand law, but I want you to be clear that the reason for this is it's an anti trafficking tool. When someone is buying thirty guns at once, it stands to reason that they're turning around and sell them in the black market. For a big profit. I also want to mention that this this provision will not impact most people Most long buyers about eighty two percent of long guns sold are sold with a single long in in a thirty day period. However, at the other end of the spectrum, we have individuals buying one hundred and seventy seven guns in one month. And digging into the specifics of that. They... When more guns are sold at one time, they tend to be lower receivers which are buildup up into military style weapons, legal or illegal ones and then sold on the black market. And that's that's clearly not in the interest of public safety of our state. So I urge you to support the spill. Thank you. Thank you. Do we have other witnesses and support, please come to the Mic? And I just wanted to notice people come that we have as probably you notice on the agenda a very long. A lot of bill's long agenda, we will be breaking at eleven thirty and whatever bills we've not concluded at eleven thirty will continue thereafter probably sometime, like one thirty, but we'll announce that at the time. So as expeditions as we can proceed with still properly vetting the bills, that's what my objective is. So go ahead witnesses in support. Rebecca gonzalez volunteer with the Brady campaign, Sacramento Valley chapter in support. Quick bay area student activists in support. Haven't changed you. Morning. Patty Shank from Los Angeles and Palm springs, I urge support in memory of all those who have lost their lives needlessly. Alright, Witness and witnesses in opposition. Two at the table and the others can speak at the just given their name and affiliation. I think chair members of the committee craig to lose on behalf of the firearms policy coalition Before I get started. Let me just say that I think the idea of two witnesses, two minutes. I didn't say two minutes and you may proceed. I never said two minutes. I've not put that But I will if you'd like me to. Then the then I do apologize. I'm just operating based on past practices of this committee. Oh, this committee has not used that timing. So please proceed or I will cut you off. Madam woman members of the committee. The challenge that we have with this bill is the basic elimination of a fundamental constitutional ride for a group of law abiding that individuals who we can send, we can hand a firearm to and send them across the world in order to defend our country, but will not allow them to defend themselves here at home in these United States. I wonder what you would say to a single mother at the age of twenty who is not able to defend so for her children should an invader or break into her home. The idea of re a specific group of people of once again of law abiding people simply based on a demographic. One can look. African American men are more likely this disproportionately to commit to commit firearm crimes yet. We wouldn't talk about eliminating their ability to be able to purchase the firearm. We would straw purchasers. Studies have shown the straw purchasers are more than likely to be female. Yet. We wouldn't talk about banning females from being able to purchase from being able to purchase certain firearms. Additionally, we would look at eighteen to twenty year olds are much more likely to cause traffic accidents. But I don't see anyone talking about banning eighteen to twenty one year old a twenty year olds from being able to purchase firearms. Additionally, the idea of rationing a constitutional en illuminated right is the same as saying well, you don't I don't know why we need more than one church in a community. It's also like saying, I don't know why you need to to have more than one book. The idea of rationing and constitutional en illuminated civil rights is a port. And if we treated any other constitutional right like this, This entire committee, this entire building would be livid. And the idea that we would do so, which such with such disregard for any process is sad and un unsupported by our constitution by the people of California you. And with this, we oppose this measure. Next witness. Madam Chair members of the committee for the Record Dan with National Rifle Association. We're here in strong opposition. This is a concept that we've explored in this committee before and the governor is previously veto out the gun rationing aspect as the author mentioned that California is home some of the strict is firearms laws in the country and we have laws that deal with trafficking of firearms and making sure that sales are only occasional. We have laws that already deal with all these concepts. And what we need to do is enforce them. And right now we have a huge backlog on our app system of actual prohibited persons that are in possession of firearms sitting out there and numbers more than ten thousand. I'd encourage we stop putting the impetus on the law abiding citizens and rationing their rights and taking away the rights of those that are eighteen to twenty years old and then instead focus on the criminal misuse of firearms rather than continue sold on the live abiding that we stand in opposition. Thank you. Thank you. Other witnesses in opposition. Members Representing Gun, California in strong opposition to this bill. Thank you. Morning madam to Kathy lynch representing the National shooting sports Foundation, the firearms industry ammunition manufacturers, outdoor sports Coalition of California, Spark club International, and California Sports since all strong opposition. Same Mc man, strong opposition and adam chair, I don't get it consent an eighteen year old to a foreign country risking her life to defend the constitution, when she returns, we deny her her right to exercise the right to defend herself back in this country. And that doesn't square A police officers is more likely to kill than a twenty one year old, you should regulate their arms. I'm not in support of this bill. Any other witnesses in opposition? Alright. Senator Port. If you would you like me to respond? No not well, I was gonna ask you clothes, but I would just note and maybe you were planning to that California has one of the lowest rates of gun violence deaths. Per capita of any state. And additionally that Florida just adopted the law to limit the age for a person to purchase a fire. And I could also... The question was or a statement was made that there's without a process. This is the process. Okay. So if Senator or Wiener Thank you, Chair. I want to thank Senator Po for introduce bill, and I'm proud to be a principal c author of it. And you know, the reality is that this this nation, we are just a awash in guns and we're never going to see a reduction in gun violence until we have fewer guns. In this country we talked about particularly guns who's really their reason for existence is to kill people and we have seen that over and over again and I am just so sick of the paralysis in this country as we have children getting killed in schools. And we know what we need to do to reduce his violence. It is not rocket science. We need to reduce the number of guns and the idea that that you can only buy one gun a month, why do you need to buy more than one gun a month? What possible rationale is there say, oh I I have a constitutional rate to buy more than one gun I'm not know you don't. And this is a good bill and I'm happy to support it. Senator Jackson. On the constitutional issue, you know there are no constitutional rights that are... Un. We require certain conditions the right of speech, for example. Time place and manner can be regulated. The notion that everybody has a right to own as many guns as they want is absolutely a fallacy. That's not in the constitution. And in fact, it wasn't in the constitution until about ten, twelve years ago with the Heller decision that allowed an un purchase of different types of firearms. We don't let people go out in by rocket launchers just because they want to. So I find that argument to be not only fall felicia, but I think it has emboldened people to expect that they can do whatever they want with firearms. And I think that does an enormous the service to the state and to the people of this country. And I'd also like to note that while one could argue perhaps sending people off war eighteen might not be a really good thing. But we have limits example, you're not supposed to be able to drink alcohol till you're twenty one, whether or not you fought for your country or not. We don't let people rent cars. Under the age of twenty five. So this whole notion about, oh, well, we we send people off to word at eighteen and therefore they should be able to come back and own guns. Just is inconsistent illogical. And I know we'll keep hearing the argument because it's it's red meat for some people. It's also false. And so with that, I would like to move this bill and be added as c author. Right seeing no other mics will have you close senator Port. Thank you, Madam, Chair. And I would like to compliment the chair as a c author, Mister Wiener is a principal c author assembly member Gibson who's been very passionate and about these issues on the assembly side. It's also principal assembly member, Gonzales fletcher and happy to have senator jackson. In watching the aftermath of Florida, there was a dad who was a victim, his child was taken. And he said shame on us in America if we become accepting of watching children die senseless. And to me as the father of sixteen year old who was actually in a lockdown at our mall two months ago where there was two shots fired and they locked down the Glendale Gall for couple hours and getting calls from other parents who had their children at the mall, we should never think of these things as acceptable common and normal and the statistics show that the proliferation of firearms is increasing to these incidence the disproportionate number of uses by teenagers. This bill is sound in its policy, it sound in its application. The statistics bear it out that it makes sense. And it's also sound in a valid response to what the young people in Florida are asking leaders to do and step up and make it safe for them to go to school to go to the mall to walk on main street. There are prudent exemptions in this bill. This is not just an emotional reaction. This is looking at hunting and law enforcement and military and trying to be principle than how we draft this legislation to approach that. So this is the appropriate place and process to have this conversation has been noted by the attorneys. We have the legal right to make these restrictions and we have the moral authority and we have the responsibility And with that, I respectfully asked for an vote. Right. The motion is due pass to appropriation. We'll take a roll call. Skinner, Ike in her I. Anderson? Who. Anderson, no. Bradford. Jackson. Hi. Jackson I Mitchell, Mitchell I stone, Stone no Wiener? Mean I. We'll leave the roll open for our senator to return. Thank you, senator, and we will now go to item three Sb ten fifty, Send Lara. And we also have another item that has been pulled and that is Sp eleven forty six. Senator laura police proceed. Thank you, Madam chair and members s ten fifty provides critical services to exon people upon the release, including access to medical, Calf fresh, work training programs and money. Since nineteen eighty nine, there has been a total of one hundred and ninety two exon examinations in California, one hundred and ninety two people who are just persecuted by our justice system found innocent, but still lost many years of their lives. Actually, governor Brown just part mister C who served thirty eight years for a crime he did not commit, the longest serving exon and history, Members bill what enroll honor and services that everyone else released from jail already receives. Like I mentioned before Calf fresh, in Medi, this bill also connects exon people with local work training programs in order to help them get jobs and be confirmed, financially stable, Lastly, the bill would require the Department of Justice to update the records in a timely manner to reflect wrongful for convictions and remove a major barrier to finding employment. Again, members of bills about fair treatment and about bringing healing as well and well being to communities and families that have been unjust harmed by our justice system, justice has already failed these exon. We cannot allow the state to fail them twice I ask for your high vote. We can have the first witness proceed. Good morning Madam Chair. My name is Anthony, Founder in Director of exon Nation. That's between fifty is an important step. To assess exon as they were back into society. I know that because I myself was wrong for convicted it's spend seventeen years in prison for a Crime commit. And this here itself you definitely be help in an necessity to help more these individuals to better to first step back into society. And I also acts Evil. Thank you, madam chair remember. Ig Hernandez on behalf of the California attorneys for Criminal Justice. We are Proud c sponsor of the measure. Let me just follow up on Obi comments very briefly. Yesterday, I was able to and the author was able to participate in the con that exon nation and Mister. Anthony hosted with about thirty individuals who spent time in prison for Crimes not commit. The stories of the folks, thirty years, thirty five years, thirty two years, twenty eight years for crimes that they did not commit. Was just so moving and so disappointing that that happens in our state. One thing I do want to point out is as you look at the bill as the bill evolves going forward is that these individuals are tech generally do not receive a lot of training or program they're not eligible for programs in the state prisons because they typically are folks who are life sentence. So they are not eligible for a lot of the programs projects generally take on the hardest cases, so it ends up being a population that have received no training, no programs and state prison that's one that we heard. The other thing we heard yesterday is that it is a long term process to heal mental health, physical health, job trading and the like, so this is a bill this book goes in the right direction asked for your support. Other witnesses and support. Thank you, Madam. Thank you, Madam Chair Matt gray on behalf of taxpayers for improving public safety. And support. Natasha Ac Of California and support. Rebecca gonzales National Association of Such Workers California chapter and support. Good morning, Jasmine Harris with the California project and support. Warning chair members, Nick Bro behalf California Public defender Association and support. Ronnie Car, mother of Wrongfully convicted Arthur At age sixteen and support? Debbie Johnson, sixteen years january, four months, export of the bill. Good morning madam Tara Perry with Californian for safety and Justice we're strong support of this measure. Good morning, Eric Henderson with Baker Center for human rights, strong support for the bill. He Jackson on behalf of zachary pate an inmate serving life without the possibility parole that is an innocent man and we're fighting to get out, and I'm strongly and support of this bill. Good morning and Emilio lax up ian from the Youth Justice coalition in Los Angeles and strong support. Good morning. My name is Le with the justice coalition and I strongly support. Morning, this is Ellie from the youth Justice coalition and I strong support this bill. Anthony Rob at You justice Coalition and project rebound at Cal Atlanta. I strongly support this bill. Hi edward here on behalf of the Y you just Coalition, and is a common since bill I strong support and urged support this bill. Brian. Just for Earnings Junior and I strongly support. Brooks Terra Project Does Team's network strong support. Hi. I'm Brit from Central Amid Neighborhood Council in Black lives matter Los Angeles, and I strongly support this bill in the rights of all incarcerated people. Annie bank's anti placed care project Justice Team's network in the California coalition for women prisoners, I strongly support. Gonzalez with the youth coalition, and I urge you to support this bill. Laurie Val with Justice And Silicon Valley debug and we strongly support. Alice Lynch, people acting in community together, I strongly support this bill. Teresa Smith, from lean, law enforcement accountability network, and I strongly support this. My name is Easy. I'm from the I'm with the youth justice Collision I strongly support. Kw and Cro coach chair Martin the king Cola Greater Los Angeles, we strongly support this. Sleep is Uncle bobby Johnson, paying strongly support. Thomas with the justice coalition strongly support? Kathleen Tom with the youth justice coalition and a strongly support. Jordan Barber with you've Justice And I strongly support this bill. Denise Friday's, stockton chapter Black lives matter two point o, Justice for James Rivera junior and Justice for colby Friday, we strongly support. Christine in My act with white people for black lives that strongly support. My name is Boris Smith, white people for Block lives and Democratic Socialist of America in strong support. Eugene Democratic Associates and America poor people's campaign strongly support. Rosie chavez Jacob This is for Jacob Dom with Silicon Valley debug and I strongly support. Hello Jackson from Black Lives, Los Angeles strongly support. Helen Jones for the Black lives Meadow land in the Justice La, our strongly support. Valerie Rivera, and I strongly support. Any other witnesses and support witnesses in opposition? Right. Seeing none is there discussion on from members? The. Alright. We have a motion. Senator Lara. You may close though, I have to say that I appreciate that this is a step in the correct direction though it just breaks my heart to think that we would still only release people who were exon with one thousand dollars and I spoke with a gentleman yesterday who had served thirty years and he is no longer of working age and yet he has no so security. So he has and family has now passed due to his the length of time and that we would just basically band a person like that is yes. So please send laura. Thank you. Madam chair appreciate support for the measure, again it's heartbreaking to see that we've completely devastated people's lives who are been found innocent a. This is just a monitor what we can do to help then rebuild their lines but I respectfully asked free either. Alright. This bill is due pass to appropriation and we'll have a roll call. Skinner. Hi. Inner I, Anderson. Alright. Anderson I, Bradford? Jackson. Hi. Jackson I, Mitchell, Mitchell I stone, Stone I wiener. Thank you. Thank you We will now go to... Let's see. I think senator bates. We'll go to your bill Sb sp twelve zero four. Good morning, Madam chair and members senate bill twelve for clean section twenty six, I mean, two sixty six I, relating to pan and human trafficking king cases, specifically, The measure simplifies the theories prosecutors can use from six to one. Combining the six existing theories of pan into a single easy to understand theory will simplify charging injury instructions. The Trafficking Victim Protection Act was the first human trafficking King law enacted in two thousand one. This has been followed by a series of legislation over the past sixteen years to protect victims of this human injustice. The majority of the Victims tend to Be United States Residents with the largest percentage of victims being used for Sa. In Orange County, the Human trafficking task force recorded that they assisted two eighty four victims in twenty sixteen. Unfortunately, there were many victims that flew under the radar and never received the Help they needed. The bill narrows the section of Law into one easy to read section consolidating the theories that are in statute. This will make It easier to prosecute these criminals in a more efficient manner. Unfortunately, some people in the sex industry have interpreted Sv twelve o four to mean that it would criminal the distribution of condoms and outreach information to prostitutes and sex workers thus putting their lives at greater risk. I want everyone to know This was certainly not my intent nor it is that the intent of the bill. Existing pan laws are aimed at preventing someone from engaging in societal harm or recruiting someone into prostitution. Sb twelve zero four does not change that. The bill doesn't criminal the giving of condoms or educational material to prostitutes and other sex workers. This measure is sponsored by the Orange County district attorney and came out as I mentioned from the many discussions that have been held by the Orange county human trafficking king task force. I have with me today Deputy District Attorney, Daniel Baron, representing the sponsor of the Orange County district attorney Tony Caucus, to testify and support and answer any technical questions you may have. Additional supporters include San Diego share William Gore. Peace Officers Research Association of California and the California District Attorney's Association. Go ahead dan. Thank you, senator bates your first witness made go ahead. Thank you. Good morning. I want to thank the Chair in the committee for taking up the time on this important bill. Just by way of background, I've been a deputy for over ten years. I've been assigned to the human trafficking unit and helped start the unit when it began about five years ago. And we've not run to five felony prosecutors. We've handled literally hundreds of cases related to human trafficking, pumping and pan. And I I only put forth my background so that you understand where I'm coming from with this statement and support. The objective behind twelve force not to change or make substantive changes to the lots to utilize existing language in the six theories and also the case law that goes back over a hundred years on the pan statute by using the language of the case law and the statute we're making clear that that the law that applies today will continue to apply this new simpler version of two sixty six I. The current statute is a good statute, but the problem is it's un to work with because it's got six different theories. We have to either ledge a specific theory of liability or at the time of trial, we have to elect one of the six theories or more theories of liability, which makes it confusing for jury confusing for courts, confusing for prosecutors and confusing for the defense. And so by placing everything into one simpler to understand statute, It makes it easier to charge and easier for everybody to be on notice of and to understand. This again is designed to fix the un will nature of it, but not to sup supply the current law. We've utilized language from cases like people Zambia from the Supreme court of the state California two twenty eleven. Cases like Montgomery from back and I believe nineteen forty six nineteen forty seven and others. Some of the opposition suggest that this statute would if past would criminal a young person or a person who's is a victim of human trafficking from simply persuading somebody else into the life current law requires and the statute that's been proposed requires that anybody who is engaging in the conduct, the act of persuasion or the act encouragement has to maintain a specific intent to make that other person be or become a prostitute. This statute doesn't change that. So giving condoms out doesn't actually subject somebody to liability for pan because they would still have to harbor some intent and do something to actively aid or encourage or facilitate it. This does not criminal an adult sex worker in the matter that I just described. I want to point out that I believe this committee and this legislature and the governor have been very supportive of anti human trafficking measures. And I want to thank the committee for that in the legislature for that and the way that they have done so is by making funds available for Victim services for pushing the development of vertical prosecution units by engaging in public awareness campaigns by providing adequate resources and training for law enforcement and creating expanded man reported laws and educating educators about human trafficking. But The legislature should not give support to the idea that prose is a viable way to get out of being prostitute and I think that was the tenor of some of the opposition to this bill is that assisting somebody to perform acts of prostitution safely would somehow criminal their activity in the funniest way and this bill does not do that. I'd also note that there may be some concern that this could be applied sex purchasers that if somebody goes out for himself to purchase sex from an individual that they could be liable for pan. Again, that's not the current state of the law and that's not the intent behind this statute. There are cases that go back to eighteen seventy four and people v Rodriguez is to talk about being Felon conduct only if you're doing it for a third party. And by using the existing language of the statute and the case lie, I think this bill makes it clear that we're not trying to change that that twelve zero four doesn't seek to change that and so the law would be adequate and would not be applied to make a mis conduct of purchasing sex. Automatically become felon conduct. Again, I want to thank the committee for its time and consideration of this bill, and I'd be happy to take any questions. Thank you. Let's see if there's other witnesses in support. Sean Hoffman with the California District Attorney's Association support. Any others. Alright. Witnesses in opposition. 