Good afternoon thank you, mr Chair members. Sean Hoffman with the California District attorney's Association here today in respectful opposition to Sb fourteen thirty seven. Let's start by saying I think we recognize that there's room for discussion on this on this concept of some level of reduced liability for individuals who are not the actual killer or a major participant in one of these in one of these offenses. We've had good conversations with the sponsor of of the bill and there's a I think a mutual interest in a willingness to continue having those discussions as the bill moves forward. The two main reasons why the current proposal doesn't really hit the mark for us. The first is the elimination of murder liability for those who are not the action killer or a major participant. We're open as I said to a reduced liability and certainly would welcome a conversation about getting rid of this rid of the special circumstance. However, we believe the law should distinguish between a robbery and a robbery where someone dies. You know, the the application of the bill is written today. Would eliminate that distinction for certain individuals and and we believe that that is is not in the interest of public safety. The second piece and this is with the activity portion of the bill. Mechanically, extending this two convictions obtained by plea when coupled with the requirement that the people prove beyond a reasonable doubt that someone is ineligible for this relief, we believe will have the practical effects very likely that actual killers, major participants and those who act with reckless disregard for human life would unintentionally benefit from this relief. So again, we we would love to continue working with the sponsors working with the author to try and address that and find some way to structure that retro activity piece so that it strikes an appropriate balance. We don't think it's quite there yet. But we look forward to continuing the conversation and Thank you for your time. Next. Next. With witness, please. Good afternoon, mr Chairman members Corey Sa on behalf of the California State Sheriff's Association. Unfortunately here in opposition. I would align myself with most of Mister H remarks. And just point out two things. One, the notion that a felony committed that results in the death of another person would end up having similar or not very disparate punishment from a felony that does not result in a person's death. I think it's very problematic for us. And so that's part of where the felony murder rule comes in as it distinguishes those two different felon. The second point I would make is sort of what I think mister Hoffman was alluding to, but this bill applies even in situations where a person has plead guilty in the past and that person is now entitled to the relief contemplated by this bill, which I think we can have a discussion about. But but the problem is is that it requires with the bill standards of the people having the burden to find beyond a reasonable doubt that a murder under the definition the bill was actually committed is that you're gonna re the entirety of the case, because in situations where a plea was accepted, it's not always the case that the prosecution has proved up every particular fact or piece of information that was available or on the table at the time. So if for person plead early in the process, that sort of that process does not necessarily happen. And so to go back and say, okay, what you play, but now the rules are different. And the way the standard is written again, it's the burden is not on the the petition or the burden is on the people to go back and say, we already got a plea this person that admitted their guilt in the matter. And now we have to go back and re not not only to the standard of a hearing but to the standard of effectively a criminal trial on a matter that could be decades old, we think that's extremely problematic from the perspective of public safety. And so for those reasons, we asked for Thank you. I'm gonna do something unusual. We have such a logistics problem with this room. Some people who are in favor get chance to testify. So if they come forward to that migrate right there and give their quick testimony in support. My name is Sarah S. I'm with Restore justice, and I'm in Support of Senate bill fourteen thirty seven. You all move towards the... If there's more people move towards it. So we're not waiting between each speaker. Thank you. Hi, My name Hilary, I'm a former prosecutor and I'm also in support of Thank you. Do we have any additional witnesses in support? Okay. So now gonna switch gears are there any witnesses additional witnesses in opposition? Members is Jonathan Feldman, California Police Chief Association in opposition. Okay. Members do you have any questions? Yes. Just right sure. Go ahead. I'm I'm just a little confused here. What has been described as Felony Murder, I always thought if you were in a commission, commission of a crime and had no intentions of committing murder and someone dies in that activity That was man slot. So what's the difference between man slaughter and this year because that's But I mean, a man slot charges a man slot different than this charge here. It is senator. The universe of of offenses is the universe of Felon for which you can ultimately be charged with with felony are based on those that are inherently dangerous. So I I think the distinction would be if you're engaged in the commission of one of those felon that is inherently dangerous and and someone dies as a result of that the commission of that felony you may be liable for murder under the felony murder doctor. And if it's not one of those, it may be something that that proceeds as a as a man slot charge. So it it has more to do with the underlying felony than it does or the underlying crime. You could certainly have mans slaughter that wasn't as a result of of committing a felony, But that's where the distinction is. You can also have a mans ladder charge in the commission of the felony. So in the sentencing four man slaughter far different than Felony Murder. And correct. So again, I I need the distinction of why would one choose not to charge one with man slaughter? Because I've seen examples of someone doing Robbery has been described here and someone was killed in a commissioner of a crime. Again, they did not pull the trigger. And they were there, they might have gotten a accessory that might have been charged even but would... I've seen examples of man sliders. So I'm just trying to understand. Why you would charge someone with the hires crime I'm more serious crime I should say. Sure. And I think that's going to vary it's gonna be kind of facts specific and it's going depend on, that person's level of involvement. It's going to what the role was that they played in the commission of that that underlying offense. Certainly here we're talking about someone who's not the actual killer, someone who's is not a major participant. But even beyond that, there's kind of a spectrum of participation that could that could bring somebody into the felony murder rule. And so I I think that the prosecutor in charging that case would look at that person's level of involvement, they would look at sort of the the menu of charging options available to them make the the charge that they feel is appropriate given all of the the facts and circumstances in that particular case. Hi may through the chair. Please. Senator Bradford, if you don't mind, I'd like to address that your questioning is precisely why I am carrying this bill and trying to narrow the application because There is depending on your perspective, one could say that this has evolved into allowing a far greater amount of prosecutor discretion than we may have intended. So this bill does not, for example interfere with accessory murder or accessory to murder for first degree, one can still be charged. With that. It would not eliminate it. Or prem murder. So it does not eliminate all circumstances where maybe I wasn't the killer, but if I was an intentional part of that killing either in the planning of it, the or the delivery of it, there are still The first degree charges available to the prosecutor under this bill, my bill is not eliminate it. My bill only narrows it so that in those circumstances where for example, and know, we can all say that person was rather used very, very bad judgment to be the getaway driver in a situation and not even Getaway driver. Let's say we know that there are instances where felony Murder was charged where the person the person is just driving and their part... Their passenger went into a seven eleven And in the seven eleven or I I wanna use, I'll say in the convenience store, and in the process, they themselves. Were killed, meaning the individual who went in to the convenience store, then that person who is driving and there are their actual cases of this was charged with felony Murder. That person driving may have had no concept number one, that their passenger even had a or that their passenger was going into the convenience store to do anything ami miss. So we're trying to just narrow it so that the use of felony murder is actually four people who not only committed but who were a full participant known knowledgeable participant in the committing of a murder or in where murder occurred. So that's really what we're trying to do at this bill. Jeremy wiener. I thank you very much, senator And I wanna thank the chair for moving this. I know it's a difficult bill and it's difficult because it's impactful and I'm I strongly support this bill. I know there are limits to how far we can go because of the constitution. But this is a really big step forward. I remember you know before holding wanted office, I spent a lot of years practicing law, and I I actually and I didn't do criminal law say that, but I remember as a a young law student when we first started to learn about felony murder. And so I was fresh, not not jade. Didn't, you know, it's sort of a a blank slate like like, most law students are. And I remember thinking what what is this felony murder thing? It seems so extreme to me and I remember, you know, they would you would look at these some of the cases that we would study, they were really extreme where people who they they perhaps did something wrong, but the idea that they would be guilty of murder and potentially spend the rest of their life in prison with just extreme. And so trying the cabin this a little more makes a lot of sense. People who spend the rest of lives in prison should be the worst to the worst. And not someone who was had no intent to physically harm or murder anyone. And and yet we're putting them potentially for the rest of their lives in jail. And I think it's really important for people to understand two things the first. What the Chair said that if they were somehow involved, they can still be an excess and still be guilty of first degree murder. This does not exempt people from that criminal liability. And second, if someone was involved in some way, they didn't know anything have any involvement with the actual murder, but they were involved in a robbery or a kidnapping or another serious felony. They are still on the hook for very very serious criminal consequences for things like robbery and Kidnapping you can go to jail for a long time. For that. So we're not just letting people off the hook. This is about saying, which should be limiting the most extreme penalty we have per murder. Particularly first degree murder. But for murder to to the people who are actually involved in those murders and not tangent gentle to it and maybe had no knowledge of it so happy to support this bill. He's that emotion? Thank you. Stone? Thank you, Senator Skinner for your motivation in this bill. And I agree with you there needs to be a higher bar the prosecutors need to use to to ensure that an accessory, somebody driving a getaway car in these very heinous crimes kidnapping etcetera. Did in fact have knowledge of the crime that was gonna happen. So my concern with your bill is the retro activity with it and the plea bargaining that went on and there may be witnesses that are around or not around and and the onus falls on the prosecutor. To try to basically retry the case. In Riverside County. We have a shortage of judge judges. These courts are already congested. I still believe in due process, but these are some realistic concerns because some of these people that maybe tried maybe they were true accessories maybe they really did have knowledge of what was going to go on understanding that there some that maybe probably did not. But some of these people are going to get a free right out of jail when they probably should remain there. So I really I'm struggling with with the bill. And I don't know where your negotiations are gonna go with the be. This seems like the D even agrees that there needs to be a higher bar as well. So I wish you continued to luck and working with the opposition. I'm gonna just... I'm gonna pose it today, but I'm hoping I can get to yes because I I agree that there's a problem needs to be addressed. Through the tariff if I might address Yes Briefly. There were resent provisions in both Prop thirty six, the the fixed two three strikes and in proposition forty seven. And we have found that the court is handling those res resent quite effectively. And I am certainly open to speaking with the Das and others about whether we need what additional refinements we might make so that our resent process in this bill does not sweep up any folks who should legitimately have been charged with murder and first degree murder. So I am certainly open to that. And I appreciate the while course, I would like to have the Neutral or in support of the, I do appreciate that the Nuanced commentary. And we I cannot of by obviously, I can't guarantee that we'll get there, but you know that I you have my commitment to work on it. I know that. Appreciate that. Is this due process to approach? Okay. So I'm gonna support it today. The retroactive parts are problematic to me. I hadn't thought it through when we had spoke before about the plea bargain aspect. So if someone plead, it really didn't go through any of the details. So they would actually have to chase that down and and so I'm hoping that you can figure out how to how to fix that portion because otherwise, I like this bill an awful a lot. So I'm gonna be supporting today, but I'd really like to have that portion addressed. So let's go ahead and have a we have a motion from... Oh, in before we before we take the vote, I'd like to hear from the author on her clothes. Thank you so much. Vice year. And yes. We will definitely look at that sensing part and just as my clothes, England, which is the origin of the felony Murder rule has now eliminated it. The Supreme Court of Canada has ruled it in constitutional and this bill before us fourteen thirty seven would put California in alignment with states like Arkansas, Kentucky, Hawaii, Michigan, Ohio and Massachusetts all whom have narrowed their murder statute to address the breath of felony murder. So I ask for your I vote. If you take the vote, that'd be great. Motion is do pass to appropriation, skinner? Hi. Inner I Anderson. Hi. Anderson I Bradford. Bradford eye jackson, Mitchell? Mitchell I stone, Stone no wiener. Wei I. We're gonna hold that open for people to add on.