Mister Wood, ab b nineteen nineteen, I have a note here. This says testimony only. Understood. Okay. I just wanted to make sure raw and same page. Good. Good. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, mister Chair members. Late on the night of October eight last year, wildfires raged through Napa Sonoma, Lake and Mend Counties, and lives were forever changed. The fires destroyed nearly eight thousand homes and clearly and including nearly six thousand homes in my district alone. Thousands of my constituents lost their homes in one night, The nightmare scenario took what was already a difficult housing market and turned it into a crisis. The North Bay firestorm became quickly the most expensive history and in the history of California. The good work of my colleagues, including many of you on this committee has ensured that Californian have strong price gouging protection. Current law prevents the cost of any good service including housing from being raised more than ten percent during a declared disaster. Unfortunately, un landlords and vacation rental hosts have managed to skirt these protections and are now taken advantage of those who lost everything. In less than a week, the median rental rate in Sonoma County jumped by over thirty five percent and there were dozens of examples of homes being offered for more than double the pre disaster price of similar homes. This happened because current law does not provide a method for determining the base rent of a home and and that was not that was not on the rental market before declared disaster. As a result, homeowners who have a second home in the area have been able to put their houses on the market pretty much whatever price they want. With an influx of temporary insurance money for temporary living expenses and the loss of over five percent of the county housing stock overnight. My district has become a prime hunting ground for landlords to take advantage of fire victims. Ab nineteen nineteen closes the new rental loophole and existing law by redefining base rent as one hundred and sixty percent of the hud fair market value. This definition clear provides a clearly defined number for both landlords and tenants to ensure everyone is playing by the rules. I'd like to thank the committee staff for their hard work on this bill. And when the time comes to vote for it, vote on it. At some point, I would respectfully ask for an iv vote. Here to testify on behalf of this of the bill is a Sonoma county district attorney matt and Carolyn Fowler. Good morning. My name is Matt Sc. I'm a I'm a deputy district attorney in the Sonoma county district attorney's office. I promoted him. I'm sorry. I just wanted to get sure Immediately after the fires and actually while some of the fires were still burning, our office did extensive outreach to try to get the word out to the real estate industry and the public about price gouging to try to do what we could to deter it. And we received hundreds of phone calls and emails from landlords, tenants, property managers, realtors, you name it asking what they could and couldn't do what the law allowed. There were numerous questions. And we also received hundreds of complaints. We investigated over two hundred complaints of price gouging, almost all of which were related to rental housing. And we think that that number is un reported. We think there were many un reported cases because a lot of people who called wouldn't give us their name contact information or other information we needed to do an investigation because for fear of re eviction. So far we've filed four criminal cases that are still pending in the courts and we have many other cases that we're still reviewing for either criminal or civil enforcement Pin Code section three ninety six currently lumps rental housing and with other consumer goods or services like of water, for example. And we've learned and investigating and reviewing these cases that there are several unique issues and applying to applying the statute to rental housing. There aren't any reported cases that interpret three ninety six and what we discovered, or there been very few and stay wide under this statute before the disasters that that we're addressing now. We need clear standards for real estate the real estate industry for landlords, tenants and for law enforcement to deter price gouging and to make prosecution workable of Ab nineteen nineteen would clarify certain aspects of P code section three ninety six as it applies to housing. Would extend three ninety six is reached to a couple of situations that aren't currently covered. I mean I'll talk first about where we would like to see the statute extended The center is impressed democrat ran a story several weeks after the fires that according to Zillow, median rent rents in the county were up thirty six percent. This is large... This was largely attributed to new rentals on the market, which were properties that only came up for rent after the fires. And from vacation rentals that were now being offered on a more long term or permanent basis. And in our view p code three ninety six doesn't currently address those situations. So after the fires some property owners recognize they could pull their homes that were listed for sale off the market and rent them out instead for very high rents. And since three ninety six doesn't apply to these rentals, they could charge whatever they wanted. Similarly, vacation rental owners who hypothetically before the fire might have been able to charge three hundred dollars a night and maybe rent their vacation around out ten nights a month earning three thousand dollars roughly. But absent the fire they we're not going to be able to charge to earn nine thousand dollars a month under a long term lease. So these situations skewed the market as the pre Democratic article explained. And also raised basically fairness issues about why one landlord could only charge three hundred or four hundred dollars a month and their neighbor might be able to charge nine hundred... Nine thousand dollars a month hypothetically. I think I said three or four hundred I at three or four thousand. And the neighbor might be able to charge nine thousand. So although we don't want to discourage folks from putting additional housing on the market, particularly when there's a housing shortage, We believe Ab nineteen nineteen would provide a fair return to property owners who who aren't attempting to take advantage of of the of a disaster. And so Ab nineteen nineteen would offer would go to a clear market fair market standard in these situations which would be a hundred and sixty percent of the fair market rate is established by hud and is published on their on Hud website. And that's an easily deter number. It's easy for landlords to figure out and it's easy for us as prosecutors to prove if we bring these to court. On the next area we would like to see addressed to eviction by landlords for the purpose of raising rents by more than ten percent according to legal Aids, and Sonoma county saw a twenty percent increase in eviction fire. And we received dozens and dozens of complaints from people who are evicted and then saw their former house advertised at a much higher rate than a much higher rent than what they were paying. We view these situations as more egregious than normal price gouging. They exacerbate the problem by creating more homeless people and putting those people into the housing market and further making the problem worse. So Ab nineteen would address this by making eviction under these circumstances unlawful. I'm gonna turn it over now to my Colleague, Caroline Fowler from my office to discuss some of the other areas that we think Ab nineteen nineteen would clarify the price gouging law Thank you, Chair Sawyer and members of the committee. As Mr K indicated, one of the other things that Ab now nineteen nineteen attempts to do is to clarify for those property owners who are already in the rental housing market, how this statute applies because of the fact that it's currently lumped in with goods and services. There are not very clear articulate standards for the realtors for the property owners and for the tenants. We've received the large number of questions and we believe that these clarifications to define in the context of housing what the before and after rental prices are based on would greatly assist in deter this and assist us in having to bring prosecution when it's necessary. Of the other things that the bill would do is also clarify that within the definition of rental housing, it covers mobile home parks as I'm sure you're well aware our mobile home parks often our homes to many seniors and many low income tenants. We have seen instances where mobile home rent spaces have received notices in excess of the ten percent increase and because the property owners believe that mobile homes are not covered under current law. So we would like to clarify that point. The other issue that we've faced is that the insurance companies have come in rightfully trying to protect their insurance and get them housing. Unfortunately, that has driven up the market and we've heard a lot of justification from property owners that it's only the insurance company, so we're not really price gouging. But even though the insurance companies are paying the tab, it really does have an impact on the victims because it diminishes their coverage such that their replacement housing may only last for six months instead of a year or longer that may take for them to replace their housing. More importantly, it prices out those victims who were not fortunate enough to have insurance we had a large number of people who were renters who lost their homes during this fire and they have no insurance and they can't compete if people are allowed to go beyond the prices that are set forth in code Section three ninety six. The other issue that's been a challenge with the current version of three ninety six is there a provision that allows seller of good to that we're on sale immediately prior to the emergency to base the ten percent increase on the regular price of the goods. So if a bottle of water was on sale for one point nine five dollars and it's normally two fifty The seller can go back to the two fifty price and then increase it by ten percent We've received arguments from owners that means that they should be able to return their property to fair market value if it was at a below market rate prior to the emergency This creates a number of problems because it's a very difficult standard to determine what should be the fair market rental in those circumstances. So as mister C said what we are looking for is a fair easily deter rate that's understandable to the public to the real estate community and to the property owners. We would like to commend the real estate industry, the property management industry, they worked very closely with us educate their members and I think that we're all working for a common good of trying to make a clear law that everybody understands We would thank you and request your support on ab nineteen nineteen. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other witnesses in support name or organization. Yes. Thank you very much, mister Chairman. Deborah Carl with the California Apartment Association. And we're working with the author to provide some additional clarity. We appreciate the clarification that we have so far. Okay. Thank you. Name and organization and support. Oops. Mr Chairman members Dan is all on behalf of the Los Angeles county district attorney's office and support. Thank you. Anyone else in support. Tiffany Matthews is on behalf of the California district attorney's Association in support. Thank you. Nicholas Gonzalez the California Civil liberties advocacy in support. Thank you. Anyone else in support. Anyone in opposition. It would take a seat Catherine Board with the Western manufactured housing communities we're working with the author to deal with the the mobile home park spaces. Most if not all of those spaces are currently under rent control, so the ten percent may be very low if somebody has been there for twenty years and that space would have normally gone up So we we're working with them on that. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, mister. Sharon members Korean With the Cal for the association of realtors. We're currently in in between position we were working with the author on amendments to clarify among other things that Lord may still vic tenant for non payment of rent during the time period specified in the bill. So I believe those amendments are being taken today in committing and we do want to sincerely thank the odds working with this on that And once those amendments are in print, we will be moving to a neutral position. Thank you. Okay. So are you both wiener? Okay official terminology here. Any questions from committee members? Mister K, you've been very today. So we could have a good debate as to whether these sort of restrictions are the best or most efficient or most humane way to respond to conditions of temporary scarcity. But I the question I want to ask is is the... Is is using the criminal law and these sort of circumstances. And and we have the support from some Das here. And I hear a lot from members of this committee why are we creating new penalties why making more things illegal? Why why are civil penalties not adequate to achieve the objectives you want to accomplish here, why do we have to kind criminal what would ordinarily be just typical marketplace activity? Well, so Pin three ninety six is already provides criminal liability in this area. But it does also make these violations unlawful under business and professions Code and two hundred which is a civil enforcement statute. So I think I think the answer is, the dis attorneys have discretion to bring these actions either currently or similarly based on a number of factors that way when when reviewing a case and determining what the appropriate resolution would be. And we're we're actually we're not trying to create new law. We're trying to modify existing law and the criminal criminal penalties that already there. Oh, I think it does extend them to encompass the areas that now you're bringing up by the end but... It was would you an expansion of current law. Correct? Yeah. So do you have any thoughts on that, mister What I mean why is it that we need to use the criminal law here rather than just the civil penalties that are also there? Well, I would say that you know I would like to have the district attorney's office to have discretion. I think there are some that are really, really egregious and I think those deserve a higher potential penalty quite frankly. I think it also creates a greater deterrent for those that are inclined to do it as opposed to just factoring in the cost of doing business to just by them jacking up their rates to high rate and then deal with it later economically rather than having a threat of a criminal proceeding against them. Yeah, I I see that point. I mean, it just seems that if the whole point of these actors doing this is to, you know, maximize their profits and if you know, you have civil penalties that are monitoring in nature that would counteract that benefit then that that should be sufficient. Right? I mean, our hope is what we're looking for is to turn in an ideal world. We would like to not ever have to prosecute people under these circumstances. It's been very difficult having to listen to the victims the fire have to deal with these circumstances. And so we feel that there is a greater deterrent effect to have the process that's already in place. Thank you. Thank you. And you may conclude. Well, I just want to thank you, mr. Chair members and thank you for the questions. This is an acute problem in our area. And we want to be sure that in the future, other areas do not experience same same kind of issue. At the end of the day, insurance companies are paying for a of a lot of these homes that have been rented at really, really high rates. And at the end of the day, we as consumers will pay for that and higher premiums for our insurance as well. In the meantime, the the consumer loses. The rental market is already extremely tight, and we just wanna give the district attorney's office, the discretion to be able to go after the most egregious actors here. And hopefully change behavior and protect our citizens. Thank you very much. And I know this is for testimony only, but I want to make it clear. We just ran out of time. We're smith the language right now, we're so close that we could be back very soon. And so anyone that has additional questions or concern, I would get to mr Wood as soon as possible because we're that close. To coming back to this committee, which I think you'll will enjoy an eye recommendation. So Thank you for your testimony only and hopefully we'll see you back real soon. Take care chair. See you. But we'll just vote on it. Okay. I'll be here to watch the vote. You'd be here to watch vote. Mister Vol, who been patiently waiting for Whenever you're ready, mister Wi. Roger that, sir. Mister Chairman, Committee colleagues, I would like to present to you a b twenty one sixty nine that enables vehicle rental companies to report theft as vehicles become overdue rather than being required to wait five days after the agreed upon vehicle return date. Vehicle theft is unique in a sense that any wasted time in the reporting process allows the criminal to further geographically disconnect from the scene. Motivation for automobile theft is higher when there was a five day grace period given, leaving plenty of time to flee the scene and dis dismembered the vehicle for this sale of parts. This bill would require communication between the rental company and the person presumed to be stealing the car via cell phone, telephone, text, etcetera, and whatever future technology may come. And if left unresponsive, through a male notice snail mail notice in order to minimize misunderstandings. When Fraud has discovered, it is important that law enforcement be notified immediately rather than waiting until the five days fire after the expiration of the car rental lease. Colleagues asked you that today to support this bill that simply expedite and improves the system of tracking down cars. This empowers the protection of personal vehicle property and enables that security is no different than the protections that already exist around any other form of capital. And amendments, do you accept the amendments? Absolutely. We needed you to acknowledge that, mister Williams yes, sir. Do you have any witnesses in support? There is no opposition that I'm aware of and I did wanna to waste the committee's this in support. Matthews on behalf of the California district attorney's association and support. Go? Any other witnesses in support Shark Ig laguna with Band Van Rentals here in support. Other any witnesses in in opposition. Cathy sc, on behalf of the Ac of California, we have not taken a position on the build that just wanted to express that but we appreciate the authors working with us on some concerns that we had and look forward to continuing to work on those concerns. Thank. That's a good thing. Any questions from committee members? Second. Did you? I just have a question. I... Is this a big problem? Because I'm like other theft like in car rental, we know who the person is who is renting the car. Correct? Correct, as long as they're presenting accurate and true identification etcetera. Also, you have an insurance issue in this sense that sometimes people who are legally renting cars will work at least one theft so they don't establish a pattern and work out a deal with whoever's chopping the car. So I mean, there there is this is viable, not greatly burning need need, but it is good especially with the new technology to keep track of rental fleets. Okay. Any other any other questions mister quirk. So I think forty eight hours is a minimum amount of time I wouldn't have a concern if it went to three days or four, but I'm okay with two days I do think it's important that I just can't imagine somebody holding a car over two days and not reporting it so I'm okay with that. We have an inconsistency here in that you can't use the Gps to track the car for a week If it's possible to work out something as you go into if the bill makes it to the senate I would suggest discussing that with as a possible amendment in the senate that you allow Gps tracking once the car has been reported as him em as you discuss. Thank you. Absolutely. You may conclude. Could you vote yes, please? We have a motion. Yes. Okay. Call the patience. Yes. A navy twenty one sixty nine, the motion is due pass as amended to the Appropriation committee jones sawyer. Gonzalez kylie Cork santiago. And measure crisis. Congratulations. Mister Wei. Sb seven eighty five, item number twenty five. Whenever you're ready. Great. Miss thank you mr. Chairman members for hearing this bill today. Seven eighty five, I don't wanna to start by thanking the committee's staff for working with us on the bill and allow week we did put amendments across that reflect the committee's requested in amendment so those should all be in print before you today. Sp seven eighty five is a procedural change to the evidence code to prevent irrelevant information about a witnesses immigration status from being mentioned in Open court. To be very clear this bill does not exclude any evidence. There are other laws on the books that indicate when immigration status is relevant or irrelevant. This bill does not in any way change in disability or lack thereof. Of immigration status. All it does is create a procedural protection so that when an immigrant is testifying you have to make a proper first to the judge to show the ad of immigration status before you just blur it out in court. This is a very real issue. We are seeing immigrants on the stand being gratuitous questioned, hey, what's your immigration status? Even if it has no conceivable relevance immigration status can be relevant under some circumstances, particularly in a in a criminal case to show bias. But at other in other situations, it's completely irrelevant and. And so we are simply saying that if an attorney wants to question an immigrant about his or her immigration status, you have to go in camera with the judge, make a proper or This is what I wanna ask and this is why I believe it's invisible and the judge will then make a ruling and if the judge rules it miss, you go back out in the open court and you asked the question. This is very similar. It's essentially identical to the procedure that already exists in rape cases where if you had the victim on the stand as in attorney you can't just go up and start questioning to the witness about his or her sexual history. You first have to go and make a to the judge about why it's invisible and the judge will then make a ruling. This has real consequences when we start having harassing and gratuitous and a relevant questioning of immigrants the understand about their immigration status. We want people to feel safe going to court. And if the minute that immigrants think that if I go to court, I'm gonna be asked about my immigration status, and I might get deported. They're not gonna go to court. They're not gonna report crime, they're not gonna show up at testify as a victim. Or as a witness and we will all be less safe. We know that Ice is in our courthouse. The attorney general of the United States has told us that when our chief justice who Republican appointed by a republican governor asked the federal government not to do that. Stop stalking people in our courthouse and Jeff sessions responded, we're going to be in the court courthouse. And while we can't physically stop them, although there is a bill on that. We can at least make sure that our attorneys are not causing immigrants to be fearful to go to court. We have worked to extensively on this bill. We did have bipartisan support in the senate with I believe thirty two votes if my memory serves. And we have worked extensively with the public defenders with the judicial council with the newspaper editors and we've taken numerous amendments. I do want to know the public defenders just came out I think last week against the bill not they're not against philosophically against the bill, but they want us to put an amendment in about making about brady obligations. The bill is very clear that it does not in any way change discovery obligation. So it would be super to put that in and we've we actually talk to committee staff about that and I believe we're all in agreement that this is not in the evidence code, the appropriate place to be putting rules about brady obligations. Those exist and the build does not change that in any way. I do want to note that since we introduce this bill, and I want to thank some of the remember gonzales fletcher for partnering with us on the bill, since we introduced a a Washington state adopted a similar rule as a rule of court. So colleagues I asked for your support and I want to turn it over to my two witnesses today, Chris Sanchez with a coalition for humane immigrant rights and Katie Miller on behalf of our sponsor of the Sample District attorney's office. Okay. Thank you. Good morning, Katie Miller from the San Francisco district attorney's office. I I really wanna thanks senator Wiener for his support and leadership on this. This is a very important bill to our office. With the climate affair in our immigrant community, raising the... The status of someone's immigration in court, if it's not relevant to the case, is really done for no purpose other than to displayed our victims and witnesses from feeling comfortable participating in our justice system and they a critical part of our just a system and our ability to be effective in both prosecution and defense of cases. We know that having folks come forward when there's a crime as senator said, really promotes community safety. And I want to acknowledge that we looked at some data in twenty sixteen and twenty seventeen in San Francisco of reports of domestic violence incidents and we saw significant reductions in our Asian and Latino communities. It's just a sign of how I think in the current climate folks are really concerned about coming forward and being part of our justice system when immigration is an issue for them. We are pleased to be a part of this bill, We urge your support. We think it will make a difference in our abilities again, both to prosecute cases, but also in ability of defense to bring in witnesses when they need to who have a role to play in building their And I do want to note that our public defender in San Francisco has supported this bill and make sure that you're aware of that is well. So thank you and ask for your support. Thank you. Christopher Sanchez with Trailer the coalition for Maine rights? And strong support of this measure. Just echo all the comments that have already been made. But in addition to that earlier this year in January, I sent out a directive regarding the policy that their agent should be having when entering courtroom and individuals. The directive clearly states that they should be targeting specific individuals, however, We know that ice agents have been waiting outside courtroom as a response to this directive as they are no longer being told to pick up anyone in the inside the courtroom, however, outside the courtroom, we have reports that people have in quote unquote stocked outside the courtroom rooms when someone might be released, or you know, there's no charge or they're not arrested. It's just they're going for a hearing. And as they come out of the courtroom being detained by ice. So for those reasons, we highly support this bill that's. Thank you. Any other witnesses support name and organization? 