You have s b eleven hundred item number eight. I do. Thank you, mister Chair members. Today, I'm presenting Eleven hundred, which prohibit the sale of fire arms by licensed dealer to any person below the age of twenty one. While handgun are used in the majority of gun deaths Long guns have been used to perpetuate many of the largest mass shootings in California, including the tragic events that took place in San Bernardino, California home to some of the most stringent income laws in the country. One example of this is requiring an individual to be twenty one years of age in order to purchase a handgun Since California gun laws have taken effect, data shows that there has been a successful reduction in the incidence of gun trafficking while not burden legitimate gun owners or persons who wish to acquire guns. In order to be uniformly consistent, California should by the twenty one year old age limit to Long guns. Over the past ten years, Californian typically purchased more long guns than handgun. Fifteen seventy five long guns were purchased by persons aged eighteen to twenty in the first quarter of twenty eighteen alone. Of the twenty six thousand guns used in crime were entered into California Department of justice automated firearm system database, eleven thousand five hundred were long guns. This bill would exempt certain groups of people such as licensed hunters military and law enforcement. Preventing the flow of guns is important to public safety regardless of whether the firearm is a handgun or long gun or purchase new from a dealer or through a private party transaction. I have A amanda Wi cox from the Brady campaign to prevent Gun violence to test behalf of eleven hundred, and I respectfully asked for an I vote. Thank you. Good morning. Again Amanda Wi cox on behalf of the California chapters of the Brady campaign to prevent gum violence. The Brady campaign generally believes that handgun and long guns should be subject to the same laws. Back years ago, it was thought that long guns were primarily know, rifles or the grandfather shotgun locked in the closet. And they weren't treated the same. But now the so called modern day wording rifle is a high powered can be a high powered semi automatic with exchange magazine that is or can be more lethal more threatening than a handgun gun. So there's no reason that it not be subject to the same laws. This bill though does not actually subject long guns and handgun to the same law. It just prohibits the purchase of long gun by someone age twenty one. It does not prohibit a possession. And as he heard it provides a number of exemptions. It allows for intra fam sale or transfer of a firearm So that tradition of a father giving his son, his Hunting can continue. The American Medical association just last week issued a statement regarding firearm, violence prevention policies that they now supporting. And among those policies, they are now supporting banning possession and use of firearms and ammunition by unsupervised youth under the age of twenty one and support banning the sales, a firearm and ammunition from license and unlicensed dealers, two of those under the age of twenty one, excluding certain categories of individuals, such as military law enforcement personnel. That's exactly what this bill does and I believe the American medical association is adopting those paths. Because they recognize as do I that maturity, impulsive and reckless behavior and responsibility very greatly among eighteen to twenty one year olds further that they are disproportionately linked to crime and firearm homicide. So makes it's common sense and it's certainly good public health policy to raise a minimum age for purchase of a long gun from a firearm dealer to age twenty one. Thank you. Urge support. Thank you. Are there any other witnesses in support? Representing American Academy Pediatrics California division, we are in strong support. Thank you. Any witnesses in opposition? Are there any questions from committee members, mister Court? Moved to bell. Hear no other questions. Oh, I'm sorry they didn't hear me. I'll speak louder next time. Mister Chairman members of the Committee craig to lose on behalf of the firearms policy coalition, the California association of photo firearms license. I just find it interesting that we're talking. What we're talking about here is a constitutional en numerator right, the right to keep in bear arms at the age of eighteen, adult, you're are considered an adult. Respond you are legally responsible both criminal and civil for the decisions that you make for the contracts that you that you enter into. Where you are allowed to vote, you can be sent halfway across the world handed a firearm in order to defend your country And what we're saying is you do not have that same exact right to be able to defend your own home. I I would happen to agree with with one point though, we believe that, yes, firearm long guns and Handgun do need to be treated the same. And then you should have a constitutional right to be able to own them even at the age of eighteen. We have to decide whether or not we're going to allow individuals to be to be adults to be citizens and have full access to the rights thereof. Or we're going to say that at the age of eighteen under the age of twenty one, you are not an adult. And therefore, you do not have access to all of the rights. Thereof. Either way, we need to make a decision. I I do a grown up an adult and a citizen and you have rights or you do not. It's for these reasons that we oppose this measure. Thank you. Thank you. Mister Chairman member Perez is representing Donald California two points. Number one, the Federal government recognizes anybody over the age of seventeen as a member of the militia. Don't need conscription, Don't eat registration or anything. They are recognized by the federal government. As a member of the militia. And this bill specifically denies the second amendment rights of members of the militia, which was the purpose that the second amendment wanted to protect, have the ability for the citizenry to come up with their own guns that they own and brought in order to defend this country. This bill specifically prevents it. People are gonna say, well, you know we've done it with handgun. Well, it's gotten away with Handgun because we have chosen not to sue on the constitutional of that thing now that it's a clear across the court blanket. A situation, there will be a lawsuit just like there was a a lawsuit filed in Florida. And secondly, just logic and and and equal thinking, the statement maturity and impulsive and this behavior and responsibility very greatly among eighteen and twenty year olds. I mean, if if you really believe that, then then you would be considering if you really wanna save lives whether you should be allowing anybody from eighteen to twenty to drive since more kids die from the misuse or reckless use of cars then they do with firearms in California every single year. You you you might have to think about Golly. They might be reckless using that right that we have given them through legislation to vote, which is a huge responsibility. So you know, to say, oh, you're you're too dumb too stupid to immature to to own a gun and defend yourself. Not mind you, there are members of the military. Who have served our service and have separated from the military before their twenty one. And with this bill says that if you come back to the state of California, you get married and you have your family. And you're under twenty one, even though you have been off the foreign wars and done all kinds of things, you can't come back. You're no longer a member of the military. But you can't come back and defend yourself for your family in your home because you're under twenty one. Doesn't make a whole lot of sense. So for these reasons and and and others we're joined by some of our other colleagues in opposition. We're strongly opposed. Thank you mister Chairman, members of the committee for the record Dan with National Rifle Association. Once again, we have a legislative proposal looking to restrict the rights to law abiding citizens rather than going after the criminal misuse of firearms. It's the same thing over and go over again, repeat repeat restricting the right the law abiding For those reasons were opposed. Thank you. Thank you. Mister Chairman Roy Griffith on behalf of California rifle and pistol association for the reasons outlined by my colleagues with strong we oppose this bill. Thank you. Thank you. Mr Chair tim mc man, last weekend, I spent the week weekend with three fifty kids sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, shotgun guns all over the place, they're all having a good time all very safe and their behalf and my behalf, I asked for your No vote. Thank you. Good morning, mister Chairman Cath representing the national shooting sports Foundations, Fire club International outdoor sports coalition and outdoor sports coalition and California sports salami Own opposition. Might also point out that women are the ones that are really purchasing firearms now and you're talking about young women on college campuses who might be single mothers who are under twenty one who have the right to protect themselves. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any questions from committee members? None. You may close? Thank you mr Chair. I would point out you have to be, I believe twenty five to rent a car. So there are reasonable restrictions on multiple things. We know that the two deadliest schools shooting Sandy Hook and Stone douglas were per by eighteen to twenty or twenty year olds with long guns. We know that the survivors in Florida have passionately made the case that the casual gun purchased by a teenager should be prohibited and we should raise the age to twenty one. I think we should respond to those please. I think if Washington won't lead, California will. Individuals eighteen to twenty comprise four percent of the population, but commit seventeen percent of gun sites. Young adults eighteen to twenty five experienced some of the highest rates of serious mental illness, which we should be addressing as well. In twenty fifteen, twenty three point four percent of those arrested for murder a non ne mans in the U. S. Were under twenty one we need to do something about this. This is a reasonable approach with I think appropriate exemptions that make sense and I respectfully asked for an I vote. Thank you. This is one of those things where you when I was young and I was eighteen, I thought I had a right to smoke in drink alcohol smoke weed too, but I was prohibited from it. And our more serious note, the amount of accidents that young people are involved in, a lot of because of drinking and under influence. So it is it is for that reason that why we do restrict young people at certain ages from doing things because they're they're just not ready yet. And I even know about the example of renting a car. So yes, it doesn't seem to be inconsistent. But it's inconsistent for a reason. It's considered for a reason for to with that recommending I vote do we have to get the motion. Okay. On Eleven hundred, the motion is due passed to the Appropriation committee. John Sawyer. Lack Hi. Cam I Kylie, Kylie No quirk. Cork I, Santiago. That measure passive. Thank you. Mister Wei. You have sb sp two twenty one and Sb nine nine. Survival long discussion which one Okay. Whenever you're ready. Maybe thank you, mister Chairman. And thank you for hearing this item today, colleagues Senate bill two twenty one will ban gun shows at the Cal palace, which is a state fair ground that sits on the border between Dal City and San Francisco, the Cal palace hosts, five, multi day gun shows every year. This bill will take effect on January one, twenty twenty so that we are not causing the cal palace to breach its current contract, which runs through late twenty nineteen. Because the cal is a state owned fair ground, Only the state can restrict gun cells at this site. Our local communities have zero authority to do so. This is not controversial in our local communities. The governing bodies, our boards of supervisors and San Francisco County and San mateo County as well as the Daily City City council have been advocating for decades. To get rid of these gun gunshots. For this bill, we have unanimous resolutions, unanimous votes at the San Francisco Board supervisor unanimous vote at the San Mateo County board supervisors, unanimous vote on the valley City Council, as well as unanimous votes. Of the school boards, San Francisco and Jefferson Union high school District. So again, this is not controversial locally yet our local communities have no ability to do anything about this. And that's why we are stepping in. We have unanimous support c sponsorship from the entire legislative delegation from both San Francisco County and San mateo County. I want to thank my c authors. High school students have been now protesting these gun shows and saying they want them to not be there anymore. And we know that nationally our young people are now taking over a lot of the leadership against the epidemic of gun shootings and gun murders in this country. This country is a awash in guns. We have again this epidemic of mass shootings. And it is absolutely frustrating. I will say that this gun continues to exist. Right on the border of San Francisco and Deli City. Our community once these gun chose not to happen anymore and that's why we're here today and I respectfully asked for your eye vote. With me today to testify in support of the bill. It's Jess, who is the mayor of Daly City. As well as a mir, who is a student at Skyline College, Community College and San mateo County, and until recently was a student at Jefferson Union High school. So I respect last Ivan. Okay. Thank you And you have five minutes total. So who whoever wants to begin first. Yeah. You. Good. Good morning, chair Jones Sawyer. And committee members. My name is Jess I'm the mayor of Daily City. I'm here this morning to testify and support Sb sp two one which calls a ban on gun shows at the Cal palace in daily city. Sb sp two twenty one would prohibit the sale of firearms and ammunition in our community at the state owned Palace, which is in 1a a district agriculture association. The cow palace and other state owned facilities, host gun shows several years and most recently in April and again on June ninth of this year. Despite this long standing history of gun shows at the ka palace, times have changed existing laws that regulate the sale and transfer of firearms arms in our state and country have proven inadequate in reducing the incidence of mass gun violence that we have all witnessed. Tragically, these incidents have seriously impacted students and youth across the nation and in our local community. Studies have shown that seven children's slash teens under nineteen are killed with guns on an average a day in this nation. As the mayor of Daily City, I'm especially concerned about the safety and well of my community and our young people, would recent incidents of gun violence occurring in the nation. I'm committed to protecting the students of Daily City. The Bay shore neighborhood of Daily City home to the Cal palace has a t through its eighth grade school child development center and community center within its vicinity, all of which I'd like to protect from potential gun violence. As policymakers is the city of counsel Daily City, along with the governing bodies in the city County of San Francisco, our Neighboring city, the County of San mateo, all voiced ongoing concern about the gun shows in ka Palace. Ironic we both daily city and San Francisco prohibit shops in our respective jurisdictions. Yet it is frustrating that a loophole to this prohibition exists at the Cal palace, thereby impacting both our communities. On June eleventh, the City council in Daily city unanimously endorsed Sb two one with a passage resolution of number eighteen eighty four. The council I recognized through adoption of this resolution that the surgeon mask gun violence and continuing sale of gun sales at the state owned facility, calls for our elected state representatives to take a stand again so gun violence by acting swiftly to reduced the number of firearms arms on the streets are being sold at the Ka palace and gun shows. Mister Chairman on behalf of the residence of Daily, particularly those who live in the shadow of Cal palace. And those safety of paramount concern I urge in affirmative vote in Sb two twenty one. A certified copy of our resolution has been submitted for inclusion in this committee hearing and thank you for this opportunity to testify and support of senator Wei legislation sb two twenty one. Thank you. Yes. So again, I want to send my thanks to the chair and the assembly members for hearing us out today. Speaking on behalf of my peers, the gun epidemic in the United states has absolutely taken its toll on the students in my area. It's impossible to go to school hearing about the latest shooting that's happened in the country without just a sense of absolute and pervasive fear. It exists every single time we walk to onto campus every single time we walk into our classrooms. It's the idea of guns and knowing that guns are being openly sold in the area and that people have access to guns that are being sold at the cal palace that there's an promotion and touting of the idea that guns are just this right that everybody has and if somebody wants to walk onto campus with a gun, they can easily get it right near the school, it's minutes away from three different school districts. The Cal palace where the guns are sold intersect with three different school districts serving thousands of kids, and none of them feel safe walking onto to campus. Recently in the past year, we've had an increase in safety drills on our school and it's impossible to sit there in the classroom huddled in the corner while the teachers turning the lights off and grabbing a bat from the back of the classroom standing in front of the door and not imagine, oh my god. I could absolutely be the next school shooting. This could absolutely be the next news headline that my school was the next one to have students die in a place where they're supposed to feel safe and feel educated. It's terrifying to consider and Unfortunately, that's the reality we live in. And knowing that these gun shows are continuing right minutes away from where kids are walking their little siblings to school or eating their lunch in the cafeteria is atrocious and astounding. And the students in our area have already spoken up about it. There's been protests by high schoolers is in our area saying that they don't want to see these guns being sold in their communities in their schools near their siblings near their students and have their lives being put in danger for for nothing, basically So I speak on behalf of the students when we say we highly highly urge you to consider passing this bill so that we know that our lives are safe in your hands and in the hands of our teachers and in our communities. Thank you. Thank you. Any witnesses in support. Miss Chairman members Poll on behalf of the City in County at San Francisco, long standing policy on this to in support of the bill and I appreciate center are not letting go of the issue. Thank you or drive up. Thank you. Mister Chairman members Stacy Dwell on behalf of the Border supervisor of the County of San mateo and strong support. Thank you. Calvin Quick on behalf of Bay Area student activists and support. Thank you. Erica From Jefferson High school. I'm one of the residents that live right by Bay elementary school along with hud, and hundreds of children and their families that are very close to wear these. Your name. Weapons are being sold and Shown, and I'm in support of this film. Okay. Thank you. And Vice President of the jeff union high school suggestion on behalf of my board and our students we support. Thank you. Or any witnesses in opposition. 