Instead talking. You mean order. I'm a call the meeting to order we'll begin as a sub committee going to give the to a sub I mean, to our vice chair who's not listening to me so I can present on a ten sixty five. Thank you mr chair presenting Ab ten sixty five has been here before. We've made some some adjustments to make the bill much better than it was before. With me today, we have Go ahead. This Chairman members Dan auto in behalf of the Los Angeles County district attorney's office. As it said lu said this bill has been heard this committee before with the passage Prop forty seven there was an increase in organized retail theft in California. However, our codes needs to be updated to include a specific crime of organized retail theft. Because right now, all we have is our new shop used to be either paid after petty theft for the prior This bill remedies that problem and so we are in support. You two my special. Mister Chairman members Stacy Dwell on behalf of the Retail Industry Leaders Association, as well as target in Home Depot I thank the author and the proponents of the measure and the administration for working with us on a very specific retail. Issue that's very important to us. And the definition of organized retail crime placing that in California statute is a significant priority for us. You'll note that the statute does sunset in twenty twenty one. And I would envision that we might want be back to extend that as well. So Thank you. And I forgot to say in our respect for the for I vote. Any other witnesses and support? This is an opposition or you're support valerie there for the California chamber of commerce, we part in support of the bill and the amendments make it better. Okay. Any other members in support? Opposition? Okay. Questions for anybody on the panel here? How did you come up with such a good bill? Everyone cooperated on this one. Okay. I just have a couple of questions. First well can you explain the sunset dates that are throughout this build? There's some interesting short periods of time? Two years is pretty short. Well, we we wanted to make sure that if anything else goes on any of the legislation, we'll be able to evaluate how this bill works. We've kind of ab advocated our responsibility over when we were six year members and we wouldn't go back and actually look at how a law actually impacted community. We felt two years which was more than enough time. To make that evaluation and more important, if we had to make some adjustments, it then forces us to make some adjustments in two years. Organized retail stuff is very serious climb and it's an affecting now on the business community. It's affecting a lot of lives. And so we shouldn't let a lang for a very long time and that's why we're coming back. And really kind of forcing us as a legislature to look at this again sooner than later. Yeah. I think you you know I'm committed to that. I presented a bill very similar that got rejected in this particular committee. So I might this seems just very, very interesting that and I'm just trying to get some find answers because first of all, the study comes out after the expiration date. Help me understand that. This study comes out after. So I'm hoping that we get preliminary information on the study. From a study before it's finalized So if we do have to make any adjustments we can. So you're right, it does come out after, but we should we should have pretty good information before then. My actually my final question has to be with the fact that on the third defense when somebody has theft they're offered diversion on the third offense. It seems like it should penalty should escalate, not diminish. Help me understand that. So and I think it really depends on on the crime. I mean, even with what we're doing with bail, for example, we're putting in pre trial risk assessment and so this gives an opportunity not to just specifically go worse and more worse. You give people especially people who are on drugs or alcohol problems and things that need to give them an opportunity to if they're into retail theft and you're stealing because they have a drug alcohol all problem. We give them more time to get to some kind of diversion program so they can help them with the alcoholism. As you know, probably better than I do. Sometimes for it to take, doesn't take one or two times. Sometimes unfortunately, it takes seven times And so this allows that to be part of our part of the the thing that we're looking for to make sure we're not just jail people ind to when we can provide them some services. That's strategy kind of confused me, but seems should be at the very first defense instead of the third effect. So there will be some... I believe there will be some some diversion programs as you know, I put thirty seven point three million dollars in for the version programs for youth and we're gonna continue to put them diver diversion programs. Mister Chairman members. Dan on half the Led office. Diversion whether or not the legislature or the electorate through an initiative, a local district attorney can always establish a diversion program unless it's prohibited So diversion is an option up as way I understood up through the third offense. Honestly, he would be at least County. Outside some kind na narcotics or alcohol issue. You're probably not going to get a version on a third case that court or the D would object to it if it was just because the person was caught for the third time. There would have to be some kind of underlying issue where diversion would be appropriate. If excuse me, if diversion isn't appropriate, then, like I, I can speak for La County, but we would object because it's mind of saying the diversion is optional doesn't mandate the diversion be granted. Okay. Any other questions comments? Do we have the quorum? Yeah. You can ask establish that first? Let's go ahead and do that John? Here. Lack? Kylie Santiago. Okay Cora is present. Didn't anybody else have any comments, anything that would like to say? Respect for I. On A ten sixty five, the recommendation is to be concur, Jones lawyer? Lack. Kylie, Kylie I quirk, cork I santiago measures out congratulations? Thank you. Okay. Love for me since I. Right. Okay. Thank you. On ten sixty five Cam dev. Tamara w I. We'll hold the. For another four minutes and then we'll close for mister Santiago alba. On ten sixty five santiago santiago the public safety committee meeting stands adjourned. 