Madam chair, we're presenting item twenty six forty fourteen thirty seven whenever you and witness already, we may begin. Thank you so much. I know we had to take a break. I wish our other committee members were here, but I know that there's lots of competing committees. So it is not due to a dis. But I am presenting S fourteen thirty seven which we have titled the best practices act because its purpose is for better and equitable sentencing through thoughtful practices. Now what do I mean by that? California's murder statute has been applied has over time then more broad in its application. And I think that most of us have the perspective that our punishment should fit the crime. And what's happened over time is that prosecutors have due to a kind of archaic common law, the felony murder rule, they've been able to replace the intent to commit murder with the intent to commit a felony In those situations where A felony results in A death. What does that mean? That means that a large number of people in California who did not commit murder have been sentenced with first degree murder or I would have to put this more accurately. They were charged with first degree murder and then sentenced for life without parole. So disproportionate long sentences for people who did not actually commit the murder. And I won't give all the statistics on that, but I will raise one about the women in California's state facilities. We have seventy... We have about one hundred and eighty two women and I may be off by just a couple that are now serving a life sentence in California, of those women. Seventy two percent of them did not commit the homicide. So what Fourteen thirty seven does? It's reserves the harshest punishments for those who intentionally planned or actually committed the murder, and it establishes a process for resent in those cases where the individual can demonstrate that their charge was not proportionate to their participation in the crime. And here to test my witnesses in support are robert Garcia from the j Rest justice initiative and Wilson from the S public Defender office. Okay. My name is Robert Garcia. In nineteen ninety two, I was sixteen years of age when I was involved in two street robber, that led to the killing of one man and the series assault of another man. That night, I got drunk and high with friends who are also juvenile and a part of the street gang I belong to. We decided to go out and rob people. I was unarmed but one of my cold defendants then seventeen years old was armed with a folding knife. When a victim resisted, my call defendant stabbed him. I later learned that this man had died. When I found that out, I was horrified. I had intended to rob but I never meant that anyone be killed. I broke down when I learned that a person has lost his life, I was charged as an adult plead guilty to a first degree murder charge and was sentenced to a term of twenty six years to life and stay prison. I did not understand the felony murder rule at the time. It was confusing to me that I will be sentenced for a crime that I never agreed to commit and never intended to commit. The perpetrator of the Killing received an in ind sentence of forty five years to life and stay prison. I do not excuse my participation in the robber and I my behavior was horrible and had a ripple effect that affected many lives I understood that in nineteen ninety two, when I realized when that had happened and I know that now. I was young in which your teenager who was impulsive and failed to appreciate risk and consequences. My father had left my home to be with another woman who he had imp, my mom was emotionally devastated and for various reasons could give me the support I needed it. Without guidance, my peers and I turned to each other for support. The pre sentencing report referred to me in terms reserved for an animal called Ne fe. And the patient report questioned whether even had a conscience. I assure you I did have a conscience and I understood the robber Are committed the night deserve punishment. However, I never intended to kill anyone or to a inflict lifelong suffering on others. We're enough for the felony murder rule I would have received a sentence of over eleven years and stay prison for my conduct at night. However, because of the felony murder rule, even though I did not kill nor intent to kill I was sentenced to more than two decades and state prison, and I remained there and of January fourteen, thousand fourteen. I did changes as I matured even though Was in prison This associated myself on the negative peer influences of the prison gang culture and immerse myself into education and figuring out the cause factors that led to my deli and criminality through trust self programs. In twenty fourteen, I was approached from prison through temporary temporary agencies, I found work in local factories in Compton California. My first customer service job was at Walmart and with a sincere desire to give to the community. I became a member of the anti coalition. In two thousand twelve, I got married, And now I have a two year old daughter. My wife is pregnant with her second child on the way in June of this year. I am now the assistant executive Director of J Restart Justice Initiative. For the past two years, I have traveled to many California department of corrections, rehabilitation facilities on a bi monthly basis to give hope and motivations to thousands of inmates. Last year I designed a program for organization called footprints, which strive to transform the lives of incarcerated gang members by building supportive relationships, and empowering them with the tools to recognize the negative reality of gang life and this is so such days ourselves from gang involvement. I tried to give all the prisoners I encounter hope to tell them that there are more than their worst actions and encourage them to stay on the path of rehabilitation. I have been approved by the Cdc to enter ten prisons, which is a rare privilege for a formerly incarcerated man Still parole. As a part of my work, I also met with survivors a crime and parents who have lost children to violence who are working to forgive those who are so hard in. I do not have a advocate for Sb fourteen thirty seven for myself. I have already spent over two decades in prison. Instead I am here for all those who are inside who did not commit murder nor intended to commit murder and yet, who still remaining incarcerated from murder. I was granted parole in two thousand four twenty thirteen pearl hearing I can tell you to receive a grant of parole the commissioners want a prisoner to accept responsibility for the crime of commitment. For acc sentenced other the Felony felony Murder, this puts one in an almost impossible position. A person must accept responsibility for a murder that one did not do nor ever intended to do. I believe that people must be held accountable for their actions, but that punishment must be tied to one's intentions. I urge you to vote yes on Senate bill fourteen thirty seven. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you senator Skinner for having us here on this historical day in this historical building. My name is Jo k Wilson, and I'm a deputy Public defender in San Francisco. And this is my father Matt Wilson, who is behind me here And Mack Wilson is a retired from the United States Air force and he served two tours the duty in Vietnam. With distinction. The reason that we are here today is that my brother and my father son who's in the the picture right here is charged with felony murder. And that is true even though he did not kill anyone. Attempt to kill anyone or intend to kill anyone. He wasn't even present at the scene. But none of that matters under the felony murder rule. Under the felony murder rule, a person can't be sentenced to first to be murder even when they did not kill or intend to kill. My family is not the only family that has been devastated by this antiquated practice. The felony murder rule has taken the heaviest toll on young people women and people of color. This toll can only be measured in heartbreak. My eighty three year old father's last wish is to be able to hug his son again. My nieces is wish is to be re reunited with her father, who is not a killer. To be clear, Sb fourteen thirty seven does not abolish the felony murder rule. It merely limits its application to those who actually kill intended to kill or who were major participants and acted with reckless ind. Sb fourteen thirty seven is a rule of individual responsibility. It is a bedrock rock principle of the law and of fairness that a person should be punished for his or her actions according to his or her own level of individual responsibility and not for the action of others. Life sentences for non perpetrators of the fatal act not only fails to place blame squarely where it belongs, but it approaches cruel and unusual punishment. Sb fourteen thirty seven allows for an individual assessment of a participant mobility. The average age of a person convicted under the felony motor rule is twenty Psychological research cited by the United States Supreme Court demonstrates that people continue to cognitive develop into their mid twenties. Before that time, young people have not fully developed the decision making skills to remove themselves from dangerous situations. Particularly when older peers are involved. Research has shown that the felony motor will does not deter crime. That ninety nine point five percent of people incarcerated from murder, were not even aware that the rule existed before they committed their crimes. It cost over seventy thousand dollars annually to incarcerated a person. This bill save taxpayers millions Further, as many lawyers who have lit felony murder cases can tell you, in order to avoid the first to be murder charge for an, an effective lawyer will leave Nova stone un. That means that cases are in trial courts for years. Prior to trial. And this can cost the court and counties hundreds of thousands of dollars per defendant I want reiterate. The people who we are talking about that this bill would impact are not murderers despite the label. They are our sons, our daughters, our community members, our friends. Over thirty five years ago, the California Supreme court called the Felony Murder rule or Barbaric and asked this legislature to end it. You all have the power to make that change. We now ask this legislature to heat this call and thank you very much. Additional witnesses and support, please. Jennifer Redding, Deputy Public Defender Santa Clara County. I support fourteen thirty seven. Thank you. Henry with the anti and coalition and strong supporters. Donna Allen support on behalf of San Francisco public defender Got strongly in support of this bill. Andrea with Californian for safety and Justice and strong support. Dennis Flynn with cares for youth. It's strong support. This is my daughter Kelly, who is serving a thirty three life sentence because some of her friends were going to beat up somebody that assaulted her and after she left they killed him. And so she got thirty three to life under Felony murder. My name is Christina Mendoza. I'm a part of families united to end life without possibly parole and I fully support this bill. Sorry, it's Thomas with the u justice Coalition, and we would be honored to close sponsor this bill, and Urge you to support this Thank you. My name is Gabriel la Reese. My husband is on his twenty fifth year on a fifteenth to life sentence. And I'm strong support of this bill. Garrett Bios Public, California Public Defender Association support the bill. My name is Carbon Martinez. I'm with Brown shoes, and I strongly support this bill. Ken mendoza the policy associated dante some collision and formerly incarcerated and Nice trying approach this bill. My name is Ty Vargas admin with Justice we're a c sponsor and strongly support the bill. Alex Male, Proud sponsor from restore justice and strong support. Thank you. Hi. My name is Janet Davis and my son is serving life without parole based on the felony murder role. Kim miguel from the Justice Coalition we're honored to be c sponsors on his bill. Thank you. Else from the Pacific Juvenile defender Center were honored to be c sponsors of this bill. Lena Luna from Orange County with a loved one who has served twenty one years of an l sentence under as an ada and a better I support this bill. My name is Aldo Romero I'm with self awareness and Recovery and the anti Coalition, and I strongly support this bill. Hi. My name is Selena Chai. I'm on the policy team at the ti coalition and I strongly support this bill. Hello. My name is Andrew Win, Director of Project Rebound Sacramento State University and A. And A strong support. Hello. My name is Allison Ramsey. I am a law student with the University of San sc school of Law Racial Justice Clinic and I strongly split bill. Josh Pine with the Anti citizen coalition c sponsor in strong support. Baylor with Anti Coalition and Deputy Director for Freedom for youth out of Santa Barbara and I strongly for support this bill. My name is Esp sp nun I'm the sacramento coordinator for the Anti coalition and we strongly support this bill. Chris Ming, I'm a member of the Anti Coalition. I'm directly I was directly impacted by this felony motor. And it's because I did not get held accountable for someone else's murder that I'm out doing great things today. Thank you and I strong support this bill. My name is Jam Rodriguez. And I'm with the anti coalition and we strongly to support this bill. My name is K cassandra Sa, and I'm with Advocates for Justice and I strongly support this bill. My name is Mori Edwards, and I'm from San Francisco. I'm the worker and I strongly support this bill. Name is Danny Monte. I'm the line director with Californian for safety and justice and we strongly support this bill. My name is Jan And I strongly support this bill. My name is Joanne Shea. And I'm the founder of felony murder elimination project. That's my son, who was twenty years old at the time of the conviction of the crime. We are a proud c sponsor of this bill and we strongly urge you to support... We out strongly support. Thank you. Good afternoon. Emily Harris on behalf of the El baker Center for Human rights and strong support. My name is Greg Fide with initiate justice and we strongly support Sb b forty seven, thirty seven. My name Keith Chandler. I served twenty one years in prison for a felony murder. I this bill is narrowly tailored. It would not have helped me and I strongly support this bill. Hi, My name is Colby Lens with the California coalition for women prisoners for the hundreds of domestic violence survivors that we work with who were sentenced for the abusers actions. My name is Elisa Bay area. I'm with survived in Punished which supports criminal survivors of domestic and sexual violence and I strongly support this bill. My times, parent of an inmate under the felony murder role and support this bill. Hi Petra Hines. I support this bill. My name is Gloria Bell, and I'm my husband serving my name is Gloria Bell, and I'm my husband serving twenty plus years. And I'm here to support the bill. Alright. My name is Pamela E and work Felony Murder rule, and I'm here to support Joseph bail with my son and law, and I support the bill. Good afternoon, Micah a doctor off on behalf of the Ac California and proud support. Morgan Car with the California attorney. Oh my gosh. California attorneys for criminal justice. Thank you. Thanks for. Good afternoon. My name is Peter Cara with the justice coalition and strongly support. Good afternoon. My name is Philip Lester on with anti Coalition and she'll close justice coalition and I'm strong support bill. Rebecca Young c chair of the Racial Justice Committee for the San Francisco Public Defender office. Good afternoon. We are in strong support of this bill. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Theo Ses. I'm with the anti Coalition here Sacramento. I was actually sentenced to life without behind the felony Murder rule myself. I came back on appeal in two thousand sixteen. I did eighteen years in my life. I was sitting in nineteen. I'm strong support as bill. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Ami. I'm a criminal defense attorney in an animal rights activist, and I am in support of this bill. Thank you. Hi. My name is Roman Walker. I'm a uc Hastings Lawsuit student, and I'm in strong support of this bill. My name is Jason I'm Uc hastings lost student and I'm a strong supported of his bill. Fran Bell, A r c member, and I'm in support this bill. Thank you. For t, American Friends Service committee and F and support of the bill. Janet Berger, my son is affected by this bill. Nice strongly supported. My name is Adrian adriana. My husband serving fifteen years a lot for alleged lookout. Hi. My name is Julie Mai on behalf of restore justice. I've strongly support this bill. Hello. My name is Richard W. On I'm with the assisted Coalition. Strongly support bill. Do we have any additional witnesses and support? If you wouldn't mind making room for the witnesses in our opposition. 