Bills out. Thanks so much. So now I'll go to Sb fourteen thirty seven. And So what Sb before thirty seven does is address the fact that California's murder statute has not been modified for decades. And when it was adopted, it swept up the English common concept of felony murder, which is as I indicated in a common law concept that is more than a century old, which basically does not so much hold a the capability is of a of the person a question is less a factor in the charge for the crime. And instead what is time a crime that was committed where a death occurs, the felony murder rule sweep up that the any participant in that crime. Now what that in its practical effect has resulted in is that we have people in California who are serving life without parole sentences who were convicted under the felony murder rule. Who were neither aware that a murder occurred plans the murder or committed the murder. And while we still have on the books such laws as accessory to murder and murder We have the ability through existing statute to capture those what we might call participants in a crime and deal with their less c that does not have to apply a felony murder rule to those who had a very minimal if almost non role in the crime. So that is what this bill is attempting to do is narrow that statute and narrow it in a way that patterns after the state of Ohio, the state of Kentucky and a number of other states who similarly did this after court cases within their state. And within the state of California, our own Supreme Court our superior Court has described the application of California's felony Murder rule as Barbaric. But has not changed the sentences and has indicated that it is the domain of the legislature to address this problem. So that is why Bring the bill to before you today in order to address that problem. And I would like my witnesses now to speak in the assistance support to testify. Thank you. Have five minutes of apiece. So not each, but five minutes in total. I'm sorry. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Jo K wilson. And this is my father Mack Wilson. He's a retired Air force sergeant. He served two tours of duty in Vietnam with distinction. He is my hero, he is my inspiration. The reason that we are here is because my younger brother is charged with Felony murder. And this is true even though he did not kill anyone, attempt to kill anyone or intend to kill anyone. He wasn't even present at the scene. However, under the felony murder rule, none of that matters. And to be clear, Sb b fourteen thirty seven does not abolish the Felony murder rule. It merely limits its application My family is not the only family, which has been devastated by this antiquated practice. The Felony murder rule has taken the heaviest toll on young people, women and people color. This toll can only be measured in heartbreak. My eighty three year old father's last wish, just to be able to hug his son again. My twelve year old niece, only wish is to be reunited with her father. It cost over eighty thousand dollars annually to incarcerated a person. This bill would save taxpayers millions. Further, effective lawyers leave no stone on turn when lit mitigating encompass liability felony murder cases. That means that cases are in the trial court for years prior to trial. This can cost the court in counties hundreds of thousands of dollars per defendant. The people we are talking about are not murderers despite their label. They are sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, friends and community members. Over thirty five years ago, the California Supreme Court called the Felony Motor Rule Barbaric and asked this legislature to fix it. You all have the power to make that change. We ask that you make that change. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Kate Chad, and I'm the policy director of Restore justice. Sb fourteen thirty seven is a rule of individual responsibility. It is a Bedrock principle of the law and of fairness that a person should be punished for his or her actions according to his or her own level of individual responsibility and not for the actions of another Life sentences for non perpetrators of The Fatal Act not only fails to place blame where it belongs. But it also approaches cruel and unusual punishment. Sb fourteen thirty seven allows for an individualized assessment. The participant c mobility. Something that is done throughout our criminal justice system with the felony murder rule being one glaring exception. The average age of a person convicted under the felony Murder rule as a non perpetrator is twenty years old. Psychological research cited by the United States Supreme Court demonstrate that people continue to cognitive develop into their mid twenties. Before that time, young people have not fully developed the decision making skills to remove themselves from dangerous situations, particularly when older peers are involved. Moreover, Studies revealed that seventy two percent of women incarcerated in California with a life sentence under the felony murder rule were not the perpetrators of the homicide. They were acc in the underlying crime only. S fourteen thirty seven would also allow Re resent for people who did not kill or intend to kill. Instead, These incarcerated Californian would be sentenced for the crimes they did commit. And would no longer serve life sentences for crimes. They did not commit. As outlined in this committee's analysis, research reveals there no deterrent effect to the felony murder rule. As cited in the analysis. If the primary rationale for a state to retain the felony murder rule is to reduce crime, the state should reconsider this rule. Public safety and just criminal laws are not a zero sum game. The state of California can still protect public safety and have just and equitable criminal justice system. I urge you to vote yes on Sb fourteen thirty seven today. Thank you. Are there any other witnesses and support? Let's. Hello my name is Dennis Flynn and cares for youth is an organization that I represent we're a proud c sponsor of this bill. I'm also here as a parent of a daughter who has served twenty two years under the felony murder rule. She was not there and did not participate in. Thank you. Sure Domingo with Silicon Valley debug in San jose, California, we support this bill. Thank you. Joanne sheer founder of Felony Murder elimination project. My only child serving life without parole parole under this law. Yeah. Thank you very much. We support this bill. Rebecca We with restore Justice and also I'm a survivor family member, my was a victim on homicide and I support this bill. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Phil Lenders with restore justice and I support this bill. Thank you. Marco George from the California Public Defenders Association and supported the bill. Thank you. Kim miguel from Justice college we're proud to be c of this bill. Thank you. Sandra Worked on behalf of West consulting. I support this bill. Lee West, former state prison number k three six six five two, current West consulting and support of this bill. Thank you. Samantha Perez restore justice and student body president of Santa Clara University and I support this bill. Alex Male from restore justice P sponsors. I'm Carrie Mo Resident Bakersfield California and on behalf of Andrew James Oliver. I support this bill. Thank you. My times Elk Grove, California and behalf of our son, we support this bill. Thank you. Pet Holmes, I'm a parent of son and prison and I support this bill. Julie Mai with restore justice and strong support of this bill. Thank you. Isabella death student at College, on behalf of advocates for justice, I support this bill. Micah Dr Ac of Californian support. Janet Davis, my son is nineteen and serving life without parole for based on the felony murder role and I support this bill. Thank you, ma'am. Chris Moore, private citizen is part of go. Mari larson, on behalf of my father, who's in jail for twenty plus years I in support of this bill. My name is Courtney Hill and I support this bill. Alright. Hello. My name is Greg Fide with initiate justice, proud c sponsor and strong support of this bill. Thank you. Let's reporter Darcy Covert student at Yale law School, Intern at San Francisco public defender office strongly in support of the bill. Thank you. My name is Sarah S. I'm with Justice we're a Proud c sponsor this bill. Thank you. Again, lester Mess par just coalition and I support this bill too. Thank you. Let's keep it moving. Nick from the wizard college social Just coalition and strongest to support of this bill. Thank you. Perry with Californian Safety and Justice We sponsors of the bill, strongly support. Thank you. Jim Weinberg, behalf of the friends, committee on legislation, California and support. Ig Hernandez on behalf the California attorneys for Criminal justice and sport. Mark stacey on behalf of the Pacific juvenile the Defender Center Proud c sponsor of the bill. Mary Garvey, human rights watch and human rights wife supports the bill. Good morning, Cecilia Chavez from San jose, California and Silicon Valley debug, and we're here to support this bill as well. Israel with by Sal and strong support. Hector Cervantes from Man Anaheim California, and I support this bill. Good morning. Gentlemen mendoza with far and family we support this bill. Good morning, Destiny via from Sin California representing Mit. Strong support in this bill. Thank you. I think we got about thirty more. My name is Bridget Ce and I support this bill. Good morning. My name is Katrina Reyes and I'm strong support of fourteen thirty seven. Thank you. My name is La Baylor and I support this bill. You Hi. My name is Selena C from the anti And I support this bill. I'm anthony Rob with the Justice Coalition and we're c to that as well. Thank you. My name is Tony. I'm with the y J. I'm a sponsor this bill. Thank you. My name is Gerard Brown with the u Justice Coalition and we strongly support this Cassandra Sa with Without advocates justice, and I strongly support this bill. Mike and dr. Us speaking for the El baker first center for human rights and support. Williams, l la, you justice coalition, I was affected artist this. That's it. We have a lot of people out there. So thank you. Name an organization. My name is Carrie Reynolds. I'm with youth justice coalition, and I strongly support fourteen thirty seven. Thank you. My name is Easy. Y j I strongly support. Thank. Sure. My name is V. I'm in intern with Communities United For store Be justice and I support this bill because we can't even home police accountable you wanna hold people accountable day Thank you. Da The theresa a national Center for youth law, strongly support this bill. Frank he was my National Center for Youth july, strong support this bill. Esp nun anti coalition and I strongly support this bill. Thank you. Fernando Herrera citizens Coalition, and that's pot bill. Michael mendoza with anti citizens coalition is support. Thank you. Jennifer Redding, Deputy Public defender, Santa Clara County, and I strongly support this bill. Thank you. And name is Sasha Alexander. I'm here with school not prisons and I strongly support this bill. Thank you. Mendoza collision and strong support of this bill. Thank you. My name is Andrew ortiz with the entire service and coalition and software as a recovery and nice strongly support this bill. Thank you. Gutierrez with Called Valley and I support this bill. Thank you. Good morning, Yolanda lad What's the Lac Valley debug and I strongly support this bill. Thank you. Nice hey with sa, and I strongly support this bill. My name is Robert Garcia J restart Justice initiative so support this bill. Daniel Hair anti coalition, strong support for this bill. He put on on a teacher oakland Unified school district, strong support for this bill. Josh Pioneer news anti Coalition proud sponsor and strong support John Rodriguez Anti city Coalition and I strongly support this bill. Philip lester Y in And strong support his bill. He's ask. Woman Substance Men honor and Anti received in coalition. I strongly support this bill. My name is Perry. This is Caleb Following from Elk Grove. I'm my mom. My heart my son is harm Davidson. Thank strongly support this bill. Thank you. James Birch, policy director Anti police terra project and strong support. Thank you. 