All right. Position to Sb eleven twenty nine. Thank you. Good morning, mister Char members of the committee. My name is Avi Levy and I'm a certified family law specialist, and I'm here on behalf of the association of certified family law specialist also known as Ac. Ac s is a profit organization with approximately six hundred and eighty five members All of who are certified as family law specialists by the state bar of California, Board of legal Specialization. Ac sls, Ab domestic violence and believes this committee must focus on the overriding issue of protecting victims of domestic violence. What Sb eleven twenty nine does is it elevate financial issues. Such as spousal and support, attorney's fees, and pension rights over a victim's protection. Ac believes that Sb eleven twenty nine will have the adverse effect of actually harming victims of domestic violence. It will take away all judicial discretion in awarding spousal support to chew victims of domestic violence and felony convictions and will end up forcing victims of domestic violence to testify. In every domestic violence case, as no alleged abuse plead guilty to a lesser offense of domestic violence, not even to a mis offense. Due to potential loss of property rights and support. Sb eleven twenty nine will cause the unintended consequence of having significantly less criminal convictions for domestic violence, thereby making it more dangerous for victims of domestic violence and that it will result in almost every criminal charge for domestic like violence coin to trial and will likely cause wobble cases of which there are many to result in ac. With the current lawn place, there no there is an incentive for alleged abusers to plead to a lesser offense and avoid a trial. This results in a higher conviction rate for domestic violence perpetrators and avoids a victim from having to go through the trauma of testifying and criminal court against her abusive spouse. Although the amendments the recent amendments make a distinction, between a mandatory loss of property rights and felony convictions versus a regrettable presumption against the loss of property rights. When a alleged user is advised of this potential loss. They're less likely to plead out. They will take their chances of trial where the alleged abuser will have a public defender representing them. And the victim will have to stay on trial to testify against her abuser and real the abuse. This bill could lead to a true user to bait a victim into re domestic violence. Attempt to ensure he doesn't have to pay spousal support in a long term marriage or share his lucrative pension with the spouse. It cause a victim who is defending herself finally or who finally snapped and was criminal convicted of a domestic violence to lose all rights to support and retirement benefits and not even have the funds to hire an attorney to defend herself. For an example, under this isabella court would have no discretion to award spousal support attorney's fees or retirement benefits, to a stay at home life and mother in a twenty five year marriage who was a victim of domestic violence for entire life and finally had enough and snapped and threw a vase that her husband made him bleed and was convicted of a felony. She's done. And then Sb eleven twenty nine provides a rebuttal presumption against the loss of these rights for Mister mean service not wrap up. Of course. In this situation, there are many times where a wife would send a harassing text message or email to her husband, pleading him to come back for the children or whatever. And that could be also considered a mis charge in a domestic violence case, and that creates a rebuttal presumption against that person from getting any support or fees or pension. And for all those reasons, Ac S purchased a knee vote when appropriate. Thank you. Next, please. Thank you. Thank you, mr Chair and committee members. My name is Kendall Evans. I'm here on behalf of the family law section of the California Lawyers Association. I am a family law attorney, my practice is based in long beach, and I personally represent a number of domestic violence victims. As practitioners and family law flex commerce here in respectful opposition to senate a bill eleven twenty nine unless amended. As my colleague from Ac noted, our the family law community is aware of and works on the front lines in areas of domestic abuse. And we are acutely aware of the injury pain and trauma suffered by their victims. This session regarding a nine a b nine twenty nine, come... Excuse me. Worked with staff to expand the relief available under forty three twenty for domestic violence victims. And although... And we believe that that will be integrated into eleven twenty nine or those will be consolidated such they are considered reconciled with each other. Existing law in both family and provide significant financial protections for victims of domestic violence. The additional relief ab b eleven twenty nine seeks to create may have significant unintended consequences that could ultimately undermine a intent. In addition to the issues highlighted by other groups Flex would like to raise the following areas of concern. The pension provision rules stated by the bill is problematic as drafted, it cannot be tailored to ensure justice on the facts of a particular case that may not fall into the typical pattern that we that we usually see. While the typical Dv scenario is the exercise, of course of control by the dominant partner. It is not the only possible scenario. They're are relatively rare, but compelling instance in which domestic violence is not part of a pattern of course of control, but is rather a one time occurrence. This is known as situational domestic violence. And its existence is supported by solid social science Research. In the instance of a victim, finally after years of if of abuse, it would be just for the court to be able to exercise judicial discretion regarding distribution of the pension funds. Sometimes the parties commit acts of domestic violence against each other. I think one of the phrases used is mutual combat, and both are found to be a fall The bill does not provide for what occurs in this instance. But under the current language of the bill, the effect would be that the individual who is relatively financially managed is going to remain that way. And in fact, that would be exacerbated relative to current law Ma'am need you wrap up, please. Yes. Under existing California law civil code seventeen o eight point six, a person who has suffered abuse may file an action in short. Flex respectfully opposed Senate bill eleven twenty nine as thank she very kindly for listening. Thank you. Others in opposition, please. Morning to your members, Laura Speed with the Digital Counsel of California. While we are listed in opposition, we're continuing to review the latest proposed amendments and we hope to keep working with author on the bill. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else in opposition? Alright. Say now. I'll bring it back to the committee questions. Comments, mister Cunningham. Thank you, mister. Thank you, Senator. I am a thousand percent in agreement with the goal. I just have kind of a technical question about the lack of rebuttal presumption for felon. And I should say by way of background, I've handled as a prosecutor and on the other side is the defense attorney, I mean, hundreds and hundreds of Db cases. I and my wife practice his family law. So we see the intersection interplay between two things. My fear is in a lot of circumstances is particularly with felons, and Dv cases, you've got somebody that's an abuser and is manipulative. Now that's not every case. Okay? But quite often, that is the case. And they can be quite good and quite crafty at manipulating a system that is to to their own advantage. My fear if there's no judicial discretion in the felony instance is that you're going to have defendants in the criminal system, manipulating that system to try to gain some sort of advantage in the family law system. And if you take the the ability of a judge to evaluate it and as a criminal defense attorney when you're advising your client whether you're public defender or private counsel of the consequences of the plea, you'd be duty bound advise them that might have the effect or will have the effect if it's a felony, if this becomes law stripping away, any rights they may have to community property in respect to with respect to the pension and spousal support. That is that could give incentive people to prolong a criminal case that really shouldn't be prolonged or force in essence a trial, particularly if they're getting a free attorney in public defender circumstance, high quality, of course. Mister chicago. But I mean, it could prolong the resolution of that case. Because they want to make the victim come to court and be forced to testify and I mean, I've I've watched these people in tears at times. The on the victim side at the prospect of having to face their abuser or in court. I mean, that's that is something that takes profound courage. And not everybody is in a position where they want to to come to court. So again, a thousand percent board with the goal, but I'm just curious is to what your thoughts are on why there's no rebuttal presumption for the for the felony english. Well, thank you. And I appreciate the question. And through the chair, the first part of your question, why we don't allow the rebuttal presumption on the felony. We have existing lawn California from Senate Bill fifteen twenty two by senator Atkins, which established the absolute prohibition in a felony conviction, somebody convicted of sexual assault as their form of domestic abuse or attempted murder. What that leaves is will say a woman's spouse who is beaten close to death but there's not an allegation of attempted murder, potentially forfeit fits pension rights community property rights, etcetera. So the felony part conform in members in both the felony and mis components. Due process is afforded the accused in a criminal court. There are those in the domestic violence community who think simple accusations should result in these remedies. We have the standard of a criminal conviction where the accused is afforded full due process whether it's felon or mis. The other part of your question, about how this might affect the plea bargaining or people playing the system and and the concern of a victim having to testify in court. Well, if an accuser is charged, if an abuse an abuser is charged likely, a prosecutor is going to work with the victim to secure testimony from that victim. But we're told from the opponents of this bill that they shouldn't pursue this because they can pursue a remedy in by pursuing a civil action after the abuse has taken place and that requires them to come back into court to deposition lengthy deposition so the abuse doesn't end in and the only place that it can happen isn't necessarily in the criminal setting. So by protecting the due process rights of the accused, and in the mis arena, allowing full discretion of the judge to understand the other hypothetical we've heard is that the throwing of the vase retaliation of victim of abuse like miss Martin for many years reaches a breaking point throws a vase at the long term abuser and gets charged with a crime. Well, simply throwing a vase is probably not gonna be charged as a felony. If if it were, it might be plugged down to a mis, the judge reserves in this bill, full discretion to review that history of twenty years of abuse to review facts in evidence. Of a breaking point of a victim and full discretion to award some or none of the pension or community property to the abuser or none. And so I think the amendments that the committee has developed with respect to the mis, it protects full discretion of the judge to to listen to these, what I think are probably unique examples I recognize they happen, but friends, the vast majority of victims of abuse are women, the vast majority of victims of that abuse are from abusive husbands and the current law protects them in sharing the earnings the pension of their victim, we're trying to conform to law what already exists for the victim of a sexual assault or an attempted murder, we think it should apply to all victims where there's a felony conviction So I hope that addresses it maybe not, but that would be my response. Thank you. This carr? Well, thank you for bringing the bill forward. I think it's an important build an issue that we continually and understand are putting more and more focus on the more we're realizing about abuse and the fact that not only the victims come in all wealth classes, all races, you name it. Sort of perpetrators and that that there isn't an image that you can see, well that's and that's not. And I think we're learning a lot more about that in recent years, which is good. And certainly I think there's no doubt that there are many situations of scenarios where victims can be financial hostages and different forms. In this form, it could be the risk of losing their pension, retirement what without you for many immigrants. I know that we see this lot the south Asian community. They come here. They get married and come here and they don't know anyone. They don't have and and they feel help us to be able to reach out if there are victims of domestic violence because they will be abandoned. And so there are a lot of different... Forms that this kind of abuse takes a shape in. And and so I appreciate miss Martin and others that were willing to have the courage. To speak about it it's a very vulnerable position to be in as courageous and reminds me of when I was a young attorney, I was in chambers and there was a a case wrote that little emotional about started crying and I was very embarrassed that I was in crying and and the judge said to me never apologized for being human. And so please don't apologize for the emotion you're trying because I think that it comes from a real place, and it helps us to understand that this is when we're doing laws and you're doing you know, kind of on paper, black and white that we're actually trying our best to protect people in our community and it's not always easy to do because as we are hearing, you, there is due process our rights that everyone has through our system and and as mentioned my colleague I work as a public defender Deputy code defender for eleven years. And so know very well about the criminal justice far more than the family. Cor on however by understanding of family lives and it gets very contentious. And I appreciate the the honing in and the focus of the amendments on the the mis aspect because oftentimes my understanding of family court accusations are flying back and forth and I think we really need to make sure that a court has the discretion as to how it applies the rule is it the the rebuttal presumption it applies to mis charges. And I and I do as oftentimes the case has some sensitivity to that raised by counsel as the resources for the courts. There's no doubt that that and I know our chair agrees that we have to continue to get more resources for our courts in general. And so I think that's when I hear that common refrain from our judicial counsel I take it to heart because there's no doubt we're still is even with our budget getting more resources to our judicial system, there's still more that we need to do. And I think that every time we put on more opportunities for or more occasions where courts are going to have to have more discretion, than clearly that that could potentially ask add to workload. However, I appreciate judicial discretion. I know that I've said this on in the past when it comes to mandatory enhancements, what have you. And the one thing that I'll mention is that there's no doubt with the felony charges. But yes, it could add another element to defendants to consider to weigh as to whether they're going to plead guilty or not. That there's no doubt about it anytime you add whether there's immigration consequence, potential family log consequence whether acid with custody children, as a former defense. Those are all things that we would very seriously by our clients on. And this would be one more thing on a felony case. But to suggest that this consequence alone will be a determining factor as whether they'll go to trial or not. Is just not realistic. I think that if someone's facing prison time, if they go a trial and if they are given an opportunity to avoid present time, we're not going to trial. I think that probably has a much greater impact on their decision as to whether they plead or not and as opposed of fighting it all the way. Not saying that there won't be occasions where there will be cases that are gonna go forward because of this issue, of course. There going to be some occasions. But in the balance, I don't I don't see that if you're talking about a legitimate serious felony case, that otherwise would not be reduced to a mis because oftentimes many felony cases are reduced to When the facts come out and and particularly when when there's a woman being accused to a felony and they are a part of and they've been in a violent violation for a long time and it's them responding back. Oftentimes at the criminal court level, those issues will be taken into account and there'll be consideration and oftentimes those cases will be reduced to a mis given the nature of the relationship and the opportunity for the courts and for the district attorney. That opportunity to further delve into the case. I the one thing just, has a defense attorney is is the... You know, this is in some ways, that directly criminal enhancement, but it does enhance penalties for criminal offenses. And so I think in weighing and and weighing everything, I still support the bill, because I think that there are still abroad. I assume that there's still a far more disproportionate number of women who are victims of violent domestic violence crimes. That are not getting their fair shake all in all in terms of the outcome of cases both criminal and in family law. And so... But I I would be interested in knowing is if this were to become law, to not just put it in a back somewhere forget about it. I would really like to see two, three years down the line what the impacts are. Because I do have some concerns that have been raised including ways by opposition. And I think it'll be incumbent upon us to return to this to see what the outcomes are in the years ahead to make sure that it has the desired outcome, which I know senator, your intentions are one hundred percent pure and good and trying to protect victims of domestic violence. And with that goal, I I certainly support it. Thank you. Mister Kylie. A couple questions for the opposition. So the per consequences that you warn of, have you seen that play out with respect to the felon for which there's already a bar on spousal abuse. And if not, why would this additional class of felon have those consequences And then sorry, second question is under existing law, you know, the family law judge can already consider it criminal history and making the spousal abuse award. And so this bill would create a rev presumption for mis cases. So why do you see the elevation of this evidence being relevant to it becoming a rev presumption to be such a strong factor that would then drive the decision whether to accept the plea bargain on the part of defendant. I could take the second question if that's Okay. With respect to Existing law, what existing law does is give the judicial officer the discretion to take any documented history of domestic violence between the parties into consideration when it comes to the award of spousal support and attorney's fees because the attorney's fees statute direct the court to look at the spousal of support statues when it comes to that, but creating a rebuttal presumption for for example for a mis conviction, overcoming of rebuttal presumption is very very difficult. And we're talking about a potential, you know, woman who's a stay at home mom who doesn't have her own support or or money to hire an attorney to overcome that very big burden of of of that presumption. And she might not be able to most likely not be able to do that. I think as an attorney as a practitioner, it's very, very difficult to overcome a rebuttal presumption. Versus the current law, which allows the court to just take everything into consideration and exercise its own discretion, which we think is the better approach. And then the first question with respect to the felon that are already considered to be to create this this bar? Well, I I hope that I can answer your question correctly. I don't practice criminal law. I practice only family law. I can talk to you about the adverse consequences associated with the mandatory distribution of funds as a result of a domestic violence action and how it would impact my clients. They are scared to death to go to court. It is a struggle. It is it is a continuing struggle that requires the support of everyone around them when they have genuinely been victim mice to get them to hang in through the litigation process to get the protection that they need. And I also think that this I realized that it's a very hard call, but I also think that this increases risk for them because we're upping the anti with respect to the abuser we're giving him more to be angry about. And and which is not to say which is not to say that in many cases, it's not well deserved. I think Flex problems were really centered around the process issues that when we're looking at monetizing injury injury that should be occurring in. Family law does not sit in tore. We don't have j. And we supported throughout the process early on and throughout the process making an easier pathway for domestic violence victims to get into the the to system to get the help they need there, rather than having this kind of blanket treatment. I I understand everyone's concerns regarding this. I just have genuine concern for the victims when the abusers find out the amount of money this is Thank you. Other questions comments? Alright. Sing none. Senator you may close. Well, thank you, mister Chair members, I appreciate the time you've afforded to this and in the first to acknowledge the challenges. I would say however, that we establish a bar that requires a criminal conviction that affords due process. Right to an alleged abuser. It also can inform a family court as to a very high standard the highest standard in terms of determining guilt its innocence. We're told that the no fault system and family law is sac sync and this will upset in fault system. But friends, were talking about a system where somebody has been found guilty of fault in a criminal proceeding. Attempted murder, sexual assault. Felon currently protect the victim from the abuser benefiting financially from that. The question from assembly member Kylie, I don't think was fully answered we don't have that I'm aware of any data of how that's adversely impacted victims Our hope is that it does adversely impact a convicted felon who's engaged in sexual assault or attempted murder. We think that same standard should apply to anyone convicted of a felony. How this impacts criminal courts in bargaining. It perhaps will give a prosecutor some leverage to secure a plea for a mis, so that the the the person accused of a felony has an option to appeal to the discretion of the court. I don't think that's necessarily bad in terms of opening up a protection of rights with a mis, plea in a felony situation. But the purpose of this law is not to dictate how criminal defense or criminal prosecution fulfill their job. I do think it be incumbent on the defense attorney to make his or her client fully aware of potential family law implications, they already exist under existing law, for sexual assault or attempted murder. We think it should apply to all felon. We think that's just it's equitable and at the core of this is protecting predominantly women victims of long term abuse assault, attempted murder and even murder and that it's high time that California recognizes that as we have with a narrow class to extend that to other classes of victims of domestic violence. And with that mister chair, I'd respectfully ask for your eye vote and again, wanna thank you and your committee staff for helping craft I think very reasonable amendments to greater certainty and predictability in the mis men Arena. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. We will take this up. Thank you. Thank you. Senator W. Alright. Senator. Shall. So Senator Alan, your four bills for today. No. No. No. No. My god. No, please. You're your one bill. This is is item number nine s b ten six This bill has literally entire it's not... It's it's it's substantially the same bill is when it started and has not received a single novo vote, a one at thirty eight to zero vote in the state Senate. So that's because the said easy. U. Yes. Alright. So I just wanna thank the committee staff for all their hard work on this bill for their detailed analysis. This bill will help California media climate and clean transportation goals by eliminating obstacles that could prevent condominium residents from accessing electric vehicle charging station. So while the price of electric vehicles has been steadily decreasing, the accessibility of electric vehicle charging stations continues to be an issue. Condominium residents belonging at to homeowner associations, often find it even harder to make the switch to electric vehicles since they don't always have the convenience of a garage to install their charging station. So current law prohibits a homeowner association from un restricting a residents ability to install a charging station at their own cost, but it's silent regarding the remaining necessary infrastructure, including the time of use meter that make Evs more economical. This bill addresses this gap in law by prohibit homeowner associations from restricting the ability residents to install a time of use meter and the accompanying infrastructure. I have with me Cory Bo from the electric Vehicle charging association speak supported of the bill. And I do want to thank Senator of For for letting me present. Thank you. Your witness, please. Good morning members, Cory Bo on behalf of electric vehicle charging association in strong support of Sb sp ten sixteen. Earlier this year, Governor Brown issued an order calling for two hundred and fifty thousand E charging stations by twenty twenty five and five million zero emission vehicles. By twenty thirty, we strongly support these admirable goals and they will require a pretty massive scale up in infrastructure if we are going to meet them. And that's really gonna assess take the state increasingly focusing on removing unnecessary barriers to deployment whether it's regulatory, financial or otherwise has mister Alan stated in his opening that T meters really are kind of an important tool to helping E drivers understand when to charge their car, how can they save on electricity costs for when they're charging, so that Evs can be a more economical option. To really, you know, in further of the goals previously we mentioned, Sb ten sixteen really does help move the ball forward in removing unnecessary barriers. Thank you. Thank you. Others and support. Behalf of the advanced energy economy and also on behalf of city of santa Monica support. Thanks. Thank you. Anyone else in supports? Seeing none is our opposition. Alright. Done. I'll bring it back to the committee question in comments. Senator, you may close. Thank the committee. Thanks Senator W. I would appreciate your support for this bill. Thank you. Thank you. Now, senator W. Item number six, sb nine fifty four. You have two items before still have a preference. No. Okay. No. Then let's take up item number six. Thank you, mister Chair. And let me start off by thanking the committee for their work on this bill. I will be accepting the amendments is contained in the mock up. Thank this bill requires an attorney representing a client to provide the client with written disclosure on the confidentiality restrictions and mediation. It will additionally require the attorney to obtain the client's signature acknowledging that the client has read understand limitation. We know the confidentiality is an important aspect of mediation in assuring participants that they can be entirely candid. Concerns and been raised is outlined in the staff report, most notably the Case that California's mediation confidentiality statute essentially bars mediation consumers who have been wrong by their attorney from pursuing a malpractice action. This bill Senate bill nine five four does not change that current confidentiality statute, but we'll provide mediation consumers a better understanding of the confidentiality and allow them to have to make informed decisions about participating in mediation. And with me, I have Larry Doyle, and Nick Broke out on behalf of the California dispute Resolution Council. And I I vote. Thank you. First witness, please. Good morning, mr Chair members, Larry Doyle and Back of the conference of California Bar Associations. In thousand eleven shortly after the Decision, the conference sponsored adopted a resolution modeled after justice chin of objections in Ky trying to make carve out a limited exception mediation confidentiality for conversations and exchanges between attorney and client, And that was brought forward the legislature ab twenty twenty five by Wagner and. That bill was strongly opposed by the professional mediation community. And as a result of compromise we managed to turn that into a gl vision commission study. That study went on for four years and many many many hearings and recently produced a a final recommendation which is as I believe mister Kelly object pointed out earlier has a very very strong opposition institutional opposition So we're looking at this, whether or not that proposal goes forward or any substantive change made in the law. We seem to have consensus. That no matter what happens as far as the know the exceptions itself, at least the members of the public who are going be participating in mediation, understand the potential risks that they run if they have a bad attorney. And they need to know that if the attorney does something there the ability to produce provide evidence Having anything to do with the mediation process is very, very severely limited. Sb nine fifty four does that. It doesn't Senator W said change the law in any way the substantive of law, but it does do a great consumer service and making sure that consumers know what they're getting into. And as a very small digress, law patient commission worked very very hard on that study and well it may never go anywhere. The commission may has a very very good process and has worked very hard on this thing, and it may want to revisit that. And so while I wasn't able to get here for Senator Ross, Sc ncr, to say something about that too Thank you. Alright. We do have a quorum moment established quorum. Stone Here. Cunningham again? Show. Chew. Holden Cal. Kylie. Main, Reyes. Gonzales Fletcher. Thank you. We do have a quorum. Next witness, please. Good morning, Chairman and members. Keep things brief. Nick Bro Cabo sacramento advocates here on behalf of the California dispute resolution council. Which since nineteen ninety four is advocated for fair accessible and effective alternative dispute resolution processes. Currently represents more than fifteen thousand mediator and ar across the state of California. Cdr supports the disclosure of the confidentiality restrictions and mediation as acquire about this bill and further supports the author's amendments, which have been referred to in today's analysis. Commend the authors center Ara for his leadership and coal, mister Doyle pointed out a very broad range of stakeholders and respectfully asked your ivan. Thank you. Thank you. Others and support. Chris Con representing Consortium for children in support. Caitlin Coleman, civil justice Association and support. Thank you. Ron Kelly and strong support and deep appreciation for the Chief Council and the author. 