And we will go to Mister Wood. The item eight, Ab nineteen nineteen. Whenever you're ready. Thank you, Madam Chair members. Late on the night of October eighth last year, wildfires raised through sonoma Napa and mend casino counties and lives were changed forever. His fires destroyed over eight thousand homes, including over three thousand in the city of Santa rosa alone. Thousands of my constituents lost their their homes in one night. This nightmare scenario took what was already a difficult housing market and turned it into a crisis. Current law prevents the cost of any good or service including housing from being raised more than ten percent during a declared disaster. Unfortunately, un landlords and Vacation Rental hosts have managed to skirt these protections and are now taking advantage of those who lost everything. In less than a week, the median rental rate in Sonoma county jumped by over thirty five percent and were dozens of examples of homes being offered for more than double the disaster price of similar homes. This happened because current law does not provide a method for determining the base rent of of a home that was not on the market before declared disaster. As a result, homeowners who have been who have a second home in the area have been able to put their house on the market at whatever price they deem they deem fit. With the loss of over five percent of the counties housing in stock, my district has become a prime hunting ground for landlords to take advantage of fire fire victims Ab nineteen nineteen closes the new rental loophole in existing law by by defining base rent as a hundred and sixty percent of the hud fair market price. This definition provides a clear defined number for both landlords and tenants to ensure everyone is playing by the rules. I'd like to thank the committee staff for their hard work on this bill. And respectfully request an I vote. Here to testify on behalf of the sonoma county district attorney is Matt C. Excellent. Go ahead. Afternoon. My name is Matt Sc. I'm a deputy attorney in the consumer protection unit of the Da office. Immediately after the fire our office at extensive outreach to get the word out about price gouging in the rental housing markets because we knew it was going to be an issue. And we did outreach both to the real estate industry and to the public and we've received hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of inquiries from landlords, tenants, property managers, realtors, you name it asking what they can and can't do under the statute. We've investigated close to two fifty complaints of price gouging in the rental housing area. And we think there are many more cases that were un reported because of fear of retaliation by landlords So far we've filed five criminal cases and we have many more cases that are still under review for either criminal or civil prosecution. Ph code section three ninety six currently lumps rental housing in with other consumer goods or services like bottled water, And what we've learned is that there are several unique issues in trying to apply three ninety six to the rental housing market. And what we need our clear standards for both the real estate industry and law enforcement. Ab nineteen nineteen would clarify certain aspects of Code section three ninety six as it applies to rental housing. And Extend three ninety six is reached to a couple situations that are not currently covered. With respect to the areas of clarification, the first is what I'll call insurance bidding. One of the most prevalent arguments that we've had is it wasn't price gouging because insurance companies came in and bid up the price or offered me more money. That's there's currently no defenses called for that allows for that in the statute. And it's created a lot of problems it affects the housing market in general, and it certainly affects those persons who are who are not insured, particularly renters and people who don't own their own homes. The next area, three ninety six currently has a defense for items that are on sale. If an item is on sale, after pre disaster post disaster, you can bring that in back up to its regular price plus ten percent, and we're seeking some clarification as to how that applies to rental housing. The next area three ninety six currently allows sellers of items to pass through certain increased costs that are imposed on them. And again, we're seeking eighty nineteen nineteen would clarify how that applies to rental housing. Next is the area of what I'll call furniture and ancillary goods. We found that there were some landlords that attempted to circumvent the statute by charging exorbitant rates for home furnishings, gardening, other services like that. So Ab nineteen nineteen would clarify what's allowed in that area and how much And then the last is the length of the rental term another frequent defense or argument that we heard was that landlord could raise the rent much higher because pre fire they were in a twelve month lease and fire they want they're limiting it to a three month lease. So it's a different product. So we'd like to see that area addressed. I'll turn down to the areas where three ninety six would be extended under the current bill, As the sibling member mentioned, Santa rosa the press Democrat ran of story, several weeks after the fires that according to Zillow, median rents in the County were up thirty six percent Zillow largely attributed that to new rentals on the market, properties that hadn't been rented pre fire that we're now coming on the market, fire and vacation rentals which are now being offered as more permanent housing. And three ninety six is not adequately address either of those areas. And so those landlords we're essentially allowed to charge whatever the market would bear. And as mentioned, that created some a lot of problems in some several high profile situations those were the types of situations that were in the paper. It skewed the market. It was up thirty six percent and it raised basic fairness issues, y one landlord on a particular street, could only charge three thousand dollars a month and someone down the street with essentially the same house charge nine thousand dollars a month under the same statute While we don't want to defer deter folks from making their rental homes available in times of crisis, we think Av nineteen nineteen would provide for a fair return to property owners that are not looking to take advantage of a disaster and that's through creating a clear standard, which would be a hundred and sixty percent of a fair market rate that's established by hud. Those rates are published on their website. They're easily attainable and and should provide clarity. And then the last issue we'd like to see addressed eviction. According to legal aid sonoma county saw twenty percent increase in eviction fire. Received dozens of complaints from people were evicted from their homes and then saw on Zillow or other areas that the home is now being offered rent at much higher rates than they were they were charging. And this creates two problems right now you have the price scheduling problem and you have new people that are on the market now because they were evicted unfairly. And so Ab nineteen nineteen would address that issue by providing special returns specifically for the eviction. Our office will respectfully request that you vote yes on the bill. Other witnesses in support. Madam chair members dan is out on behalf of Los Angeles County district attorney's office for all the reasons stated. Sean Hoffman at the California District Attorneys Association and support. Good afternoon, Karen Lang on behalf of the Boards of supervisors. Just original in Sonoma and Napa counties, the stories that he were was describing are quite real. Some landlords and lords have done the right thing. Others have not or urging you to pass this bill today. Thank you. Madam chair David Jones jones half city of Santa rose and strong support. Thank you. Good afternoon. Alexander Her with the Western center on law poverty and strong support. Deborah Carlton with the California apartment Association. The owners were asking to do the right thing. We ask for your vote. Thank you. Hi, Catherine Bo with the Western Manufactured Housing Community Association. We don't have a position on the bill, but we're we're still working with the author on some unique amendments. Thank you. Any witnesses in opposition? Right. Seeing none. We have any comment in the guy's of stone. Thank you. Again, Madam chair Dr. Wood. Thank you for bringing us forward startling to hear some of these statistics that went on it you know, I can't think of just about anything it could be as devastating as as losing your home and losing all your pictures and all your family member memorabilia and then to be taken advantage of and trying to maintain your life in a community while your life is being rebuilt. I mean this is a quality of life human issue. And I appreciate that you're bringing this forward. In your district sustain some significant mortality and devastation and we learn from these types of disasters and how we can better protect our constituents with the lessons that are learned and I applaud you for bringing this forward and I'm happy to move the bill appropriate time. Right. So we have a motion and if anything, I would say, the hundred and sixty percent is generous. It's an emergence and there were so many units that were lost and so I I feel I can support the bill. I would probably put it at a lower level of median just considering what the circumstances is and I probably would've extended the eviction protection for a few months after the state of emergency just given how we know how long it's gonna to take to replace those units, but I'm glad you're doing it. And if there's no other question will allow you to close. Just think thank you for the consideration. Is it is a crisis. It has affected so many people in so many ways, the loss of housing was meeting today with members of my community at the small business event and they have employees are being evicted on a regular basis and and it's very difficult. So this this housing shortage and these and these kinds of activities are affecting not only just the lives of those people, but businesses and our ability to recover and with that, I just respect the ask your. Right. We'll do a roll call. Motion is due passed to Geo, skinner, inner eye Anderson, Bradford Jackson, Mitchell. Mitchell i's stone, stone ai wiener. It will stay on call till our members come back. Thanks so much. Thank you so much. We'll now go to item eleven ab nineteen forty eight, remember Jones Sawyer. Good afternoon members. Ab nineteen forty eight would add fentanyl to list of control substances for which a wire cap may be authorized and would allow law enforcement to obtain wire tap for the illegal uses of fentanyl. The national institute on drug abuse defined as a powerful synthetic opioid that is similar to morphine but it's fifty to a hundred times more potent. In comparison, Heroin is highly twice as potent morphine In March of twenty fifteen the drug enforcement administration issued a nationwide alert on Fentanyl as a threat to health and public safety. Law enforcement authorities are seeing an increase in fentanyl drug trafficking because of its low risk and high profit as a chairman of the assembly Public Safety committee is my duty to keep California safe and protect them from the drug traffickers who are illegally transporting. Manufacturing and selling this fatal drug in our neighborhoods with me today is Dan Fe Los angeles a attorney's these office, I respectfully asked for I vote. You may proceed. Madam Chair remember Dan Fu auto on behalf the Los Angeles County just Attorney's office, we pleased to sponsor Ab nineteen forty eight. As everybody is well aware, we in the middle of an opioid crisis right now. And Fentanyl is one of the leading opioid opioid killers we have in the United States of California right now. Our current wire tap only allows us to obtain wire if a drug or is specifically en in the statute Fentanyl is currently not en. Yet however, Fentanyl would be I noticed poster child of a drug that would be perfect for wire taps. Virtually all fentanyl in the United States originates in China. And is then brought either to Mexico or Canada before it is imported into the United States and particularly California before it goes across the country. California Wire law only applies to large scale drug offenses. Fentanyl is being imported in kilo weights into California today. One kilo of fentanyl, generally has about street value of about thirteen million dollars this law would not target your street dealers. These are for major weight importer, which are almost exclusively organized criminal activities. We can't obtain a wire tap until we have exhausted all other avenues of obtaining evidence against these individuals, but like I say, because of the international shipment the crossing the borders, the different organized crime rings that are involved Wire tap is the best way to combat this problem in California and we would respectfully ask for your high vote. Next witness. Madam chair, members Lieutenant brandon up with the Los Angeles County sheriff's foreman and Coast sponsors of the bill and Echo the sentiments of the Das office our detectives are coming across not only fentanyl all more frequently, but the amounts that they seizing are more frequent as well. In some cases, their target for maybe it's a it's a methamphetamine case or a a heroin case or cocaine, They're actually finding more fentanyl when they do the seizure. As opposed to what they're actually looking for. So with that I encourage your vote? John love on behalf of the california narcotics Officers Association and the La County Professional peace officers association. We support the bill for the reasons articulated by the first two witnesses. Good afternoon, Madam chair members is Corey Sa on behalf of the California State Sheriff's Association in support. Sean off with the California District attorney's Association and support. Brian sherman with the riverside sheriff of Association also in support. Any other in support? Do we have an opposition? All right. Seeing none, do we have comment? Yes, Senator. Thank you, Ben I'm chair. I want to applaud my my friend from Los Angeles for bringing this bill forward. Fentanyl typically has not been a drug of abuse and in years past. It's probably one of the most popular Iv anal that's used and to show you how potent it is, it's it's used at micro. So a micro is one thousandth of a milligram. So it's just a little bit of dust. You know. And the reason why we're seeing the proliferation of the import of this synthetic hop is because it's cheap to manufacture. It's fifty times stronger than heroin and the profitability as you as you mentioned, I think thirteen million dollars a kilo is extraordinary. But again, to exe how potent of a drug this is, you mentioned it's mentioned in the report, the three pound threshold. That's one point four kilos. That's enough to overdose twenty million people of the forty million people that live in the state of California showing how dangerous this is. So I think it's wise that we're doing this. There is another drug called su. It's also on the market. Which is ten times stronger than Fentanyl. So that may be the next one that maybe we could partner together and pre em that import of that drug that is going to have consequences because what's happening is that you have people that are experimenting what they think and they've been marketed as heroin and they're actually overdo dosing through respiratory depression with the needle in their arm as they're pushing the plunger. They're just dying almost instantaneously. And it's killing some innocent people too some very notable people that many of us admire a lot. Prince actually thought he was taking Vic. It was spiked with Fentanyl. Michael Jackson also had Fentanyl, which contributed with the prop and ending his life. So reducing the import of the strangest drug is going to save lives something, and I appreciate you bringing forward and I'm happy to move it at the appropriate time and would be honored to be a author of that. Thank you. We'll accept the motion but we'll allow Senator Mitchell. Go ahead. The analysis on page five. And under existing law where wired taps are allowed. Sub says in instance of import possession for sale rotation a sale of controlled substances is fit on not considered a controlled substance? Is. It's a different. It's only specific listed controlled substance. Okay So too general. So it's so it's not... And so it it needs to be added to the current list. Thank you. More detail should have been listed there to. Yeah. Right. Okay. Before you close, I just want to say that we there have been some other bills before us on the subject of fentanyl and I think the committee as a whole is clearly not only aware of the opioid epidemic very, very concerned about it and very much interested in doing what's appropriate to end it. But the past bills were crime enhancements and this bill is not this bill is allowing this to be added to the list that it allows for the wire tapping. So with that, I'm recommending an eye on the bill and You may close. I respectfully answer for your I vote. Excellent. So we'll take a roll call. Motion is d pass to appropriation skinner. I Eye, Anderson, Bradford, Jackson, Mitchell, Mitchell I stone, stone ai wiener. Alright. With some real call and then member john, sir, you have another bill, which yes I do. Twenty eight seventy six. Thank you, Madam chair. Ab thousand eight hundred and seventy six would cod and state law protections from by state law protections from reasonable vehicle seizures as established in the fourth amendment of United States constitution in a limited number of cases, law enforcement has the ability to imp vehicles without the use of a warrant. Ability must be balanced with the need of individuals to keep their only mode of transportation. Courts have found that unless the vehicle puts possesses a danger to the community and individuals right from unreasonable seizure super proceed the right law enforcement from to seize vehicle. This bill does not seek to impede the ability of law enforcement officers to seize vehicles used in the commission of a crime. This bill only seeks to clarify state laws so that it is consistent with case law and United States constitution with me today taking answer or any questions is Jeanne jeanette. From sponsors of the bill. Good afternoon, Chair committee members. My name is Sun, legislative staff attorney from Walt, the Mexican American legal defense in educational fund. We are proud sponsors of Ab twenty eight seventy six. This bill merely cod existing night circuit case law around the community care taking doctrine It's really just an opportunity for clarification and state law that allows law enforcement to balance the needs of their needs to ensure that cars that are pulled over or a driver who has been pulled over for whatever interaction to ensure that that car is safely out of the way of traffic or parked and it balances that against the needs against our fourth amendment rights for unreasonable searches and seizures. As you know, many low income communities and immigrants face insurmountable challenges getting their cars out of storage or pay exorbitant fees for both the storage and the towing fees which often makes a difference in their day to day lives and their ability to, you know, take their kids to school to go to work and to be self sufficient. And so for those reasons, we are looking at ninth circuit case law to give law enforcement some parameters around when they can sees the car and have the car. I either imp or stored. You know, under K law right now, some of the justification for taking away a person's car include preventing a hazard to other drivers, protecting the public from an unsafe driver and or preventing theft or van. All of these are case by case bcc that law enforcement must undertake. It's not requiring any extra work on their behalf. Case law pretty clear that our fourth amendment right like some reasonable searches and seizures. Is a paramount constitutional protection and law enforcement needs to have justification before they're able to imp. Your vehicle. And for those reasons, we ask for your. Other witnesses and support. Margo, George, the California Public Defender Association and support. Thank you. Any others, okay. Witnesses in our opposition. None. Lovely alright. So d, any questions. Where we have a motion then, We will allow you to close and then take a roll call. Respect for asked for iv vote. Roll call. Ocean is passed to appropriation skinner. Hi. Eye Anderson Bradford, Jackson, Mitchell, Mitchell I stone, Stone I wei. Bills on call. Thank you, Thank you. So Thank you. We'll now go to a assembly member low so patiently waiting. And this is item number I've lost my item number. Twelve a nineteen sixty eight. That was a good year. Thank you very much, Madam Chair members. I appreciate the opportunity to present a nineteen sixty eight, which basically permanent removes firearms from anyone placed on two fifty one fifty holt with one one year, amendment taken in the assembly ensure that do process rights by maintaining the petition the court for hearing to have the firearms returned and the right to challenge their prohibition every five years This bill has received bipartisan support and supported by the California psychological association, a association of American family therapist, psychiatric technicians and the California took attorney's association have additional witnesses here to speak in support. Exceptionally asked. Business support may proceed. Good afternoon, Madam Chair remember to Sean Hoffman with California District attorney's Association. The sponsors of assembly bill nineteen sixty. Under existing law person when they are committed to a seventy two hour per into well for an institutions code section fifty one hundred and fifty. They're prohibited from possessing a firearm for five years. They can petition that prohibition that petition once they submit that, the burden is on the district attorney's office to prove that they beyond with prep of the evidence that they would be unsafe with firearms. Some of the timelines with which that process takes place are rather burdensome for the office, this bill seeks to extend those modestly, but does preserve the the person's ability to file that petition and then as the author mentioned, if someone subject to two fifty one fifty holds within a twelve month period, this would create an indefinite prohibition that the person could challenge every five years. Again, that first hearing would be the burden would be on the district attorney's office to show beyond performance of the evidence that the person would be unsafe with firearms. That standard is the opposite of what it is in many other states that have this in many other states, the burden is on the petition to show that they would use the firearms in a safe manner. We are not not changing the burden for that first hearing. We think this is very sensible changed a lot in light of some of the gun violence incidents that we've seen nationwide and would ask for the committee support. Just clarification since so the They would be able to petition after five years, but that petition or would they be able to petition sooner? They could petition immediate. So they Then they have to prove. They would petition immediately the burden would be on us to show that they were would be unsafe. Let's say we meet that burden they cannot file another petition for five years from then. Any subsequent petition would be the burden would be on them to demonstrate that they would use firearms in a safe manner. And that was amendments that we agreed to in assembly public safety. Okay. I think I understand now. So other witnesses in support And I'm community members. Thank you for allowing me to share my experience in why. I'm supporting Ab nineteen sixty eight. My name is Doctor. Jorge, and With the California cycle association. I've actually worked a few years back with a twenty three American woman who was actually sent to me for treatment for potential family reunification after she was actually put on the court for engagement of a child. Was actually fifty one and fifty twice in the period one year for experiencing psychosis and also occasional meth methamphetamine use. During treatment consistent with therapy as medication and as the time arrived for her last court case, the treating site psychiatrist and myself felt that she was not quite ready for family reunification. Upon her last court she was informed that the child was going to be terminated from her parental rate and that he going adopted by the maternal grandmother, which actually would keep the child within the family. Unfortunately, she was quite distraught and ended up purchasing a firearm and finding to be dead through a a fatal gunshot at wound to the head. About thirty minutes walk away from the house behind the trail that where she actually lived. When I asked the mother, what happened again, she said that she was distraught and she was able to get a gun. And on the Friday night after the Wednesday court decision, she was getting ready to go out. She kills everybody by and the parents stuff that she was going to go with her friends to celebrate at least the adoption of her son for her mother. Unfortunately, she did not return on Friday night. In early Saturday the morning she was reported as a missing person and her corpse was found again about thirty minutes away from why she was actually living. So for that reason, I think it has impact quite a bit as a clinical psychologist in practice. And this is one of the huge reasons as to why I'm supporting and also the California psychology association. Is supporting Ab nineteen sixty? Other witnesses in support? Max Perry on the behalf of the city of Long Beach also in support. Man Chair Center C With the California Association of Psychiatric technicians. We treat hundreds of individuals with mental illness every day and we are the front care providers for these individuals. We strongly support this legislation. Madam Chair remember stand is auto on behalf of Los Angeles district attorney's office. And also on behalf of the Cryo action alliance and support. Sum Har on behalf of the California Association of American pharma therapist and support. Calvin, Quick Area student activists and support? Corey Sow on behalf of the California State sheriff's Association support. Any other winston support? Okay. Witnesses in opposition, and we may need to have room at the table for the opposition. 