Thank you members. Right. Senator Mont, that takes us to item number thirteen, Eleven twenty nine. Morning. Good morning, mister Chair and members. I'd like to begin by accepting the committee amendments. Like to especially thank you and committee staff for your excellent, work and helping to make this a better bill. So in accepting the amendments. I wanna thank you for working closely with our with our staff. Senator Member Senate Bill eleven twenty nine will correct in injustice found in California's current family law codes where only certain survivors of domestic violence were protected from being forced to financially support their abusive of spouse at the end of a marriage. Current loss shields victims of attempted murder and victims of violent sexual felon from having to pay their abuse spousal support, attorney's fees out of their separate property, or future income from interest in their pension or retirement. Survivors of all other forms of domestic violence, however cannot benefit from this important financial protection. Senate Bill eleven twenty nine addresses this equity by expanding eligibility for these protections to all survivors of domestic violence. Through a bi system that provides guidance as to when the courts can award support to an abusive former spouse. If an abuser is convicted in a criminal court of felony domestic violence, meaning they likely headed to prison for Heinous act against their spouse court will be prohibited from ordering financial support from the survivor. If an abuser is found guilty by a criminal court of miss to mean our domestic violence, then the abuser will face a rebuttal presumption that they will not receive spousal support. Senate bill eleven twenty nine maintains existing law that allows a survivor of abuse who fights back against their spouse. And who subsequently convicted it of abuse themselves to present this evidence of their history as a victim before a judge in order to re. The presumption. Finally, the chairs amendments will further clarify that instances that in instances of a mis conviction the judge will have complete discretion in determining if the injured spouse is entitled to all or some of their interest in the community property pension. While family law professionals have shared and will continue to share concerns about this bill we feel we have crafted a balanced and thoughtful approach to protecting survivors that has received bipartisan support throughout the legislative process to date extending these protections to all victims, not only creates parity in the law. It will ensure that men and women who survive the insidious cycle of domestic abuse are not recognized by having to support their abuser after they've succeeded in escaping the marriage. I want to thank you for this opportunity respectfully to I vote and mister Chair with your permission, I'd like to present one witness And then if with the chair permission, I have a short statement from a witness who because of her circumstance isn't able to appear publicly, I have a short statement that I'd like to read with your permission from that victim. But I just start by introducing... First our first witness. Good morning. I'm Laura Martin. I'm part of a hidden demographic of domestic violence survivors. I'm hidden but not unique. I'm an educated woman who had a professional career has earned a good income and who lives in a nice house. On the outside everything looked perfect, but behind closed doors domestic violence raged. I'm sixty four, I'm disabled. I have a rare heart condition I'm Ssdi and fixed pension. I care for an Adult son disabled son who suffered a brain injury in his high graduation trip to Disneyland two years ago. I'm a survivor of domestic violence that spanned nearly thirty two years. This bill hits close to home, but it won't benefit me. I was employed by the University of California twenty five years. I started the science fellowship program in the legislature ten years ago. In my professional life, I was confident and effective at home I lived on eggs shells. I feared from my life. And the safety of my son. I'd sleep in the ground floor guest room, so I could climb out a window with a car backed in the driveway. I had a note my safety deposit box that said if anything happened to me it was my husband. Only after my son's brain injury, excuse me. Did my son's safety outweigh my own fear of the financial loss? Current laws protect me from paying spousal support Thank you Sorry. Thought I had it together. They do not protect me from losing up to percent of my pension and my retirement savings. I'm living on those monies. Those pension retirement dollars it is no different to me than providing him with spousal support. He gains, I lose unless I stay married to him. If I'd had stayed in this relationship until he tried to murder me, I wouldn't lose any retirement or pension income under state law. The line of luck between attempted murder and murder is too thin and unpredictable to be what this legislature intended to be the best to protect domestic violence victims. My husband played a my fear of Financial and insecurity to keep me captive. His return on investment increased with the years of abuse. This is not about fault. This is not about denying a nice guy his share of community property earned during a marriage. It's about finance future financial reward. For somebody who extracted from the victim during the ongoing of a crime. It reward this victim any victim will pay to the abuser for the rest of the victim's life. Sarah moves into the line of Elder abuse at that point. Financially, my husband will be rewarded. My son and I will struggle. This bill will also help remove the financial insecurity that holds many victims like it did me captive, and it will send a message to abusers that there is a financial consequence for their abuse. It will help victims like me come out of the shadows. I'm still married to my husband. The financial consequences of leaving so dire my age, my disability, and my need to care for my son. I really don't know what to do. I have the option civil court. The state of California chose to let him plea bargain down. I'd have to start all over in civil court because I can't carry that conviction forward. That was a decision of the state of California. I had no say in that. I urge you to vote positively for this I thank senator for authoring this bill and I respect and thank all of you for your time. Thank you. Saturday you had statement you want it Yes. Thank you, mister Chair members. Our second support witness was a cons of mine who would liked to be here today. But unfortunately, was forced to leave the state and change her identity in order to fully escape her abusive spouse with the permission of the chair, which I've requested, I'll read the short excerpt dear committee members. I'm writing in hopes that you will help victims of domestic violence in a way that wasn't available to me. My case is complete. I consider myself lucky. However I embarked on this journey to work with senator monte to change legislation, so that others would be protected from an deemed and unethical loophole in California family law. I have nothing to personally gain by urging this legislative change. I'm a neurologist who trained at one of those Ivy league, Ivory tower institutions. I'm young. I have and had a good steady income. I had a respectable education in a knowledge base associated with identifying abuse in psycho psychopathic. I was even on my psychiatric rotation at the number one psychiatric institution in the country when I married, however, none of this education protected me. I entered into my marriage with no warning signs, and the abuse was introduced in a slow calculated way that led me to be both fearful and full of guilt and ser all at the same time. I've since learned this is all part of the victim equalization cycle. In the end, he nearly ended my life. Laying and wait with a shotgun under my bed after a heated str incident. I thought California was a progressive state until I went through this experience. I do not believe the laws intended to finance benefit abusers, but I do think they were written at a time when it was assumed only women could be abused and only men could earn in income this the reality is anyone is subject to abuse no matter their means, status or gender. I truly hope you pass this bill. I'm afraid if you don't, it sends the message that in California, it literally pays to be an abusive spouse. Thank you for your time. Signed Jane doe. Thank you. With that, mr Chair thank you. Thank you. Senator under anyone else in support. Alright. Gina villa with a pupil rising strongly support Robin Based the remembrance project in support. Raul, Rodriguez, America First Latinos and support. American Children's first in support. Thank you. Anyone else in support. Alright. Sing none opposition. Jean Mc mcleod save our state, I'm in support. 