Good morning, mister Chairman. John Morning john Caldwell well on behalf of the California hotel Lodging Association. Just start off with a simple simple statement. In California hotel lodging association does not have our hotel members does not have a problem with a build that mandates these hispanic buttons. Our problem. So if the bill was amended to just to just make it a simple bill that says every hotels got have provide their house with panic buttons, we would remove our opposition. The problem is that there's a provision in the build that says once you pass bill, local governments can come along and pass past their wrong ordinance. So bill passes, everybody every every hotel, every motel, every, bed breakfast provides these this technology to all their employees in state of California. Very expensive. Then City of Pasadena comes along and passes their ordinance. Their ordinance requires different technology. So every hotel in the city of Pasadena has to then scrap the technology that's required into this bill and come up with the room. And then the Neighboring city of Los Angeles, for example comes up with their technology, which is different from from the Pasadena one, and it's also different. From the state of California one. So they end up so you end up imagine a situation where you have an owner has property all over the state of California. So he's got one set of technology expensive for Pasadena, another for Los Angeles. Another for the state of California. So our this this is a bizarre way to handle handle this kind of situation. We're all familiar with, for example when cities come up with different ordinance, the state of California often deals with that by passing legislation that that takes over takes over the issue. For example senator Jackson has built dealing with the problem of cities and counties around the state are coming up with these take drug programs. So there's legislation that says, you know what? Let's do it on a statewide basis. That makes sense. That works. But this is this is this takes that kind of patchwork problem and an exacerbate it makes it worse. So again, if this if if you just narrow this bill to a mandate that are that the hotels have to provide have to provide panic buttons to their house, we would remove our opposition. Thank you. Additional witnesses in our opposition. We'll bring it back to the committee. Oh, I'm sorry. Go go ahead. How are you? Good. Mr Chairman members of the committee Fred Maine on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce Alliance of Ventura and Santa Barbara County, opposed unless amended for the same reason stated by the lodging industry. Good morning, Sharon. Many members Michelle Reyes on behalf of The California Travel association. Also post. Thank you. Thank you. Additional witnesses our opposition. Bring it back to committee. Senator Jackson. Thank you. Yes. Since my name and bill were mentioned I wanted to share that it took almost four years to get the pharmaceutical industry to recognize that doing this on a city by city basis was not a good thing. And frankly, it's only that that has actually gotten them to the table. That being said, we are all working very diligently to reach that statewide discussion which may very well have some appropriate and it's granted that every community in even every hotel facility may have differences. But I would like to inquire if I may through the chair, whether or not there has been any effort to do some kind of a statewide program which has with similar resistance because that seems to have some legitimacy to it to have an overall statewide. Even if it's just the basic parameters from which then there can be some variations depending upon the circumstance So if you could respond to that, that would be great. Let. Thanks, sarah. I appreciate your concern, the intent of this bill is to establish basic stay floor worker protections. And so we intentionally we're not prescriptive in terms of the the type of technology to be used with the panic buttons. It is our understanding that number one Many of the national hotel chains already provide their employees with panic buttons. We had conversations in the to share committee about how our state employees in our state hospitals already are provided these very simple My understanding is an inexpensive technology lanyard with a button. To push in the case of an emergency. And so I don't think while Mister Caldwell well raised the the image of these very expensive and competing technologies. I think what we're hearing is already being used in the industry are these simple devices that are more akin to what you might see on late Night of the seniors calling for assistance when when when they have an accident. So that's and number one, the technology is is minimal. It's a statewide floor. Number two is that there are unique hotel and worker issues that differ from from city to City. And for example, Long beach already has a panic button and other work protections for their hotel house that we wouldn't want to impose what is is working in Long beach and, other communities throughout the state. And for that reason, they intent of this bill is to establish the statewide floor of the minimum of floor worker protections. But to allow local cities to go above and beyond So much pill. Exactly Man is if a local city probably has passed their own ordinance. Be grandfather Would be grandfather in. Right? They they're allowed to continue with the technology that they have already. That is right. Perfect. The question I have is, this is a statewide statewide issue and I apologize for not I was just thinking about this. Can we talk about the implementation And I wanna make sure I'm very supportive of the measure somebody who's had a mother whose worked alone for a large part of her career cleaning homes. I would want her to have some sort of protection in case anything would happen, god knows if anything did happen I have no idea. But how do we make sure that we implement this in a way that works with the appropriate timeline. Has there been any conversations about maybe a delayed implementation so that we get this right? I know other cities have done this, but we are going to implement the statewide. Is there any thought to maybe a delayed implementation so that we can get this right? Set as Chair, I have not heard concerns in turn of the time of implementation thus far. And so I'd be happy to address that, but I didn't hear the hotel association. Raising any concerns about the timeline. Okay. Fair enough, I just wanted to make sure, I mean, I'm just thinking out loud if we had an opportunity just make get and we want to get this right. I think of course the merits of this policy is very well intended. And I want to make sure it's done correctly. So thank you. Thank you. Center stone? Thank you. Mr. Golly, I mean I didn't realize that this was such a problem and I appreciate mister. Selma you're bringing ford in the United States over seven million women working in the leisure and hospitality business and the recent survey, one in three experience sexual harassment. Certainly, they should not be subjected to that. I do share some of the same concerns that my colleague from Santa Barbara does about having a statewide standard and and it just kind of begs a question for me is why not just the panic button if the locals are going to be able to do their own thing, Why not just establish a common denominator if you will throughout the state they certainly need to be assisted when, in fact, you've got on a really person in a hotel room why all the other additions besides the panic button? Well, again, we're not I think this is a relatively modest bill and that. In addition to the panic buttons, we have provisions to ensure that employees would have the opportunity to be able to pursue allegations of sexual assault such harassment to appropriate authorities, including law enforcement. Also requiring signs to be posted in hotel rooms to send a clear message again that you know, we're dealing with unique workplace condition here where hotel house off found alone in these hotel rooms. And so the overall provisions, I think are a relatively modest common sense protections to recognize the unique workplace challenges at hotel face. I asked mister Caldwell? Mister Caldwell, are you still here? Carl welcome back. Thank you for for being here, sir and I appreciate your your testimony doesn't sound like you're in opposition to the intent of the bill. But the author says that these other provisions in addition to panic button or somewhat modest. Are you an agreement that those other additions are modest or how would you like to see them modified to get your industry on board with this protective mechanism for the women and work in these hotels. The discussions we've had at the author's office, have basically stopped at this issue of the locals being able to come up with their own their own legislation their own ordinance. And that's the problem. It's we we got to get to that one first. The other stuff, I think we can we can talk about, but But as long as it's as long as you're you're creating a system where every local ordinance can come up and and require new expensive technology for somebody has already purchased it. There's not much. So you're concern with cities and counties approximating approximately five hundred municipalities in the state of California. Your concern for your members is that you get a five hundred different sets of rules to accomplish a common goal. In addition to the state in. State you again, you go out, you spend all the money on on city goes out and spends all the money on whatever the state requires. And then the city comes along it says okay. We want a different one you have to trash it. Okay. Well I appreciate your your testimony. Mister Mercy would it be a fair request to ask you to continue to work with the applicants and see if you can reach some kind of. I mean, it'd be great if you get the hotel industry behind your bill. My door is always open. Okay. I appreciate that. Thank you for consideration. Thank you. There's a motion. And before we out, again, I will just encourage you let we consider talking to some of the other opposition folks who are trying to make sure that we at least have some sort of appropriate implementation. Maybe that's a conversation you have as this bill moves forward to appropriation. I wanna make sure it's successful again. I more hardly supportive of what you're trying to do. And thank you for your work on this issue. Thank missed This doesn't Ab seventeen sixty one does enjoy a due pass as amended recommendation to appropriation, secretary color. Lat. Alright. Lat I stone. Jackson? Jackson I mitchell. White house. Stone for now. What's the hopes that you meet with? Position. Thank you. Mister much gonna keep the open. Thank you. Summer Thurman, is going forward. So thurman, you have two items, a twenty one sixty and twenty three thirty four, while don't begin with twenty one sixty? Sir, thank you. Mister Chair. And members of the committee, forty percent a one twenty one sixty. This bill will provide equity to part time playground employees who are currently excluded from classified service. The bill builds off of the work of last year's a b six seventy, which did the same thing for playground employees. But the bill in it inadvertently left out those who work in some community college and merit based school districts. This bill simply corrects that o mission to ensure that the part time playground employees were predominantly women and often some of the lowest wage earners at a school site will see the same classified benefits as those who do similar work in similar environments. With me today to provide additional context is ji. Surprise it. Thank you. From the California School employees Associates. John. Ask. Wow. Thank you. I own respect. That's quickly we ask your iphone. Thank you. Good morning, mister Chairman and members of Ji President with California School employees Association. We represent two hundred and forty thousand classified school employees, and these are dedicating men and women who help ensure out. Students get to school their fair for food service workers that the playground workers who are ensured that their safety on the playground for of children we've been in existence for ninety years and obviously, we will look forward to fighting for another ninety years ahead of us. This bill as the author authorized stated it's a simple build to correct a technical drafting error last year that we left out who knew that there are playground aid on the community colleges campus and that there are folks in Merit school district that makes up about one hundred of schools those districts out of that thousand school districts. So we needed to correct that. And I think the analysis also mentioned that there need to be an amendment to ensure that these folks because they are in a merit district that's essentially a civil service system they don't need to retest to get right back and all those things. And taking them moment. Right? Yes. We accept committee members. We would hurt your iphone. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any additional witnesses and support. Thank you, Chairman and members Tristan Brown with the California Federation of teachers, we also represent classified employees in Merit districts and urgent vote. Thank you. Kimberly Rosenberg with service employees in our international union where proud support and we're thankful to the committee's staff, the author and the sponsors for their hard work on the amendment to ensure that there's no on first unintended. Thank you. Caitlin Vega for the California labor federation also here in support. Thank you. Is an position of the measure. Okay. We'll bring back to committee comments for questions. Motion by senator W This has a due pass recommendation as amended to send appropriation. Sergio, please call. Mara. Not a ice stone. S no jackson? Jackson mitchell, White. My cal. Thank you. We're gonna move to your next item twenty three thirty four when to keep the last item open all our apps member to add on. Twenty three thirty four. Thank you, mister Chair members, but before present Ab twenty three thirty four This is a ability to promote workplace safety and to provide in enhanced reporting as it relates to workplace injuries and illness. The bill will establish that when there's a health and safety violation that it will be deemed continuous until that's been corrected. It will help to improve our injury and illness tracking on the job and the bill requires that when the federal osha eliminates the requirement for electronic submission of workplace injury and illness data that Cal osha will then adopt regulations requiring employer to electronically report and submit information for tracking injury and illness data on the job with me to provide additional emphasis on the need for this measure. Is Megan Subaru representing the California Professional Fire firefighters. Have you spoke for the ask for your vote? Thank you. Isn't support. Thank you, mister Chair remember Mitch Schneider with California federation, proud two c this bill along with California professional firefighters. To continue addressing the problem of what we see is really insufficient data regarding workplace injury and illness recording. Prior to the federal rule that's kind of the subject of this bill, there really wasn't anything requiring the reporting of this data to anyone other than something that requires the immediate reporting of the most serious injuries known Ka. Nothing required the reporting of the Form three hundred that lists all the injuries that happen or the three hundred a that's the summary of all those injuries. And so As a result, we kind of left all of that up to the workers compensation system, which rightly or wrongly is far more focused on treatment of existing injuries rather than prevention of future one. And so there really isn't a culture of prevention and safety out there. And so what we'd like to see as a system that more directly encourages that and so that's why we were really excited to see the federal rule happen. What the federal rule faces an uncertain future, given that in a variety of other attacks on health and safety from the federal administration and So we wanted to make sure that the rule continues regardless of what happens and so the bill directs Ka to begin a rule making process to adopt that are something similar if the federal rule does go away. And also in the interest of making sure that we have not just access to this information, but that it's accurate, the bill also cod Ka Appeals board decision known as the La County decision that dealt with the definition of occurrence and the labor code. So right now, Ka has to cite an employer within six months of the occurrence of a violation. Just you really pretty clear, but when it comes to record keeping, there was a fight in two thousand two over whether the occurrence of a record keeping violation was when the incident happened and it should have been recorded or two years later when it was found out, and the court decided, we think right that an inaccurate record an inaccurate record regardless of when the incident occurred. And so that was the law of the land until twenty sixteen when a subsequent appeals board decision overrule that. And so what we want to do is make sure that we go back to the way that it was because this new decision under this new one, if an employer can just maintain an inaccurate record for more than six months, they can't be cited for it. And so it creates a real incentive for employers to leave injuries off of that form three hundred because again, they don't have to submit that to anyone. So it's unlikely anyone's gonna to see it and then it allows them to just hide those injuries and illnesses. And no one finds out about them, they won't get cited for etcetera. So we just wanna make sure that we go back to the way things were in twenty sixteen and preserve that system and the accurate reporting that we think it encouraged. And so we urgent Thank you. Isn't support. Thank you, mister Chair members megan super on behalf of the California professional firefighters and wear our sponsors of this bill. I'll just touch on the one element that mitch did not touch on. So I'm not repetitive. Data sharing in the workers compensation system is imperative for all workers in California, but in particular of our interest is the public self insured plans. The data sharing language contained in this bill will allow O the office of the self plans to have access to data that they currently don't have access to now, but we think it's imperative for them to be able to understand the cost in the system. And provide that awareness to these self insured plans in California. So for those reasons, we ask for your support today. Thank you. Additional and support. When this is an opposition. Chairman members down slope keen associates. Regret believe the bill was amended that we weren't able to get into the analysis. I've put both the author's office and mister Ba. Notice we do have problems with the bill. The first portion of the bill on the v decision, we see no issues with it's the second issue on Os data reporting that we we think that some of the information they're looking for which is very expensive to compile is not really what will give them to meet the goals that they're interested in as a solve of self insured. We have suggested verbally and we're going have a amendments that we look at amendments that would require each self insured plan to submit their audited statement annually to Os, which will give you the fiscal background of what the it is needed to show their solve. We hope to work with firefighters have had conversations with and we plan on talking during the recess. Thank you. Good morning, Laura Curtis on the behalf of the California Chamber commerce again because of the late amendments on the twentieth. We were not able to fully analyze the bill and a position on record. We don't currently have a formal position yet, but we are... We do have concerns about the bill, and we are currently analyzing it. Thank you so much. Thank you. Additional witnesses is in opposition. Okay we get back to committee. Any comments or questions from the committee. There's a motion by senator White ka there's a motion by center This does have a do pass recommendation to appropriation. Secretary please call. Lat. Hi. Lat Ice stone. Don't no Jackson? Jackson I mitchell, Mike. Thank you, mister Keep the role until our office member on. Thank you members. We are looking for authors. Cara Low. Gonzales Fletcher. O'donnell. Yes, we do have a consent calendar, not yet. Perfect. Center Jackson moves our consent calendar. Secretary please. This is a consent counter remember. This is item two a b sixteen ninety seven and item seven twenty nine ab twenty nine fifteen. Lana. Hi. Not ice stone. Stone eye Jackson Jackson Mitchell, W. Mike I. Thank you so much. Senator it over Jackson. 