Moving to item one hundred and fifty, a thirty one hundred and, madam, please read assembly thirty one twenty nine by member Rubio and actually firearms. Some member Rubio you're recognized. Thank you, Madam speaker. Today, I'd like to present a thirty one twenty nine a bill to enhance public safety by keeping guns out of the hands of those already prohibited from having them. In light of the most recent mass shootings, the National spotlight has focused on guns laws and their impact on society. Ab three one hundred and twenty nine aligns with federal law by imposing a lifetime ban on the position of a firearm for people who have been convicted of a mis domestic violence offense. This is one of the rare instances where california's is more lenient than federal law. Members were are not creating a new class of prohibited persons not owning a firearm. But merely helping keep guns out of the hands of those already prohibited from having them. Current state law is to fully protect survivors of domestic violence, According to the La County Da office, in twenty seventeen, eighty four point nine percent of the felony firearm cases that the family violence division filed that defendant had a prior mis domestic violence conviction. Let me say that again, eighty four point nine percent in twenty seventeen of the felony firearm cases that the family violence division filed, the defendant had a prior mister Domestic violence conviction. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed if their abuser owns a firearm. And domestic violence assault involving a gun are twelve times more likely to end in death. Than assault with other weapons or physical harm. According to the national coalition against domestic violence, domestic violence is one of the most chronically under reported crimes. Only twenty five percent of all physical assaults, per traded against females by their partners are reported to the police. Only twenty five percent are reported, let alone arrests, prosecution and convictions. This means that seventy five percent under un There is a very real connection between past domestic violence and a propensity to future violence, including mass shootings. Tragically, children are the most common victims of domestic mass shootings. While there are no government statistics on how many children are killed in domestic violence situation. The Huffington post found that children under seventeen years old made up the largest group of victims in the study. And while we sit here and discuss the domestic violence mis offense, nearly three, U us women every day are killed by an intimate partner and nearly fifty percent of those domestic violence crimes go un. The federal bureau of justice statistics says an average of seven hundred and sixteen thousand instances of non fatal domestic violence were reported to police annually over the past decade. And five hundred and eighty two thousand instances were un. For the members who questions why single out domestic violence? Well, I hope I was able to shed light on not only the data, but most importantly, the hundreds of thousands of lives that have been lost or affected by domestic violence abuse involving a firearm. Thank you and I respectfully asked for your vote. Thank you. Come come w recognized. Thank you, Madam speaker. I just rise to urge thoughtful in your vote on this bill. Domestic violence, there is a non negotiable. In fact, I'm a big them a survivor of domestic violence. And I know what that can feel like and look like. But possession There is a very low threshold for possession in our pen code. And I just want to share with you two examples. You could be in a car with a friend and not know anything about what is in that car. And you could get stopped. And if the police find a firearm in that car, possession is connected to you. You could be with a friend. Going to a firing range. Your friend could not have enough money to purchase bullets could not have the right Id and you could purchase them for the friend and never go into the range and shoot, but you have a receipt. And if you get stopped, you are in possession. So I urge some thoughtful in your vote on this bill. And if it does pass, I certainly hope that the author of this bill will take these issues into consideration as it moves forward. Thank you. Thank you. Remember baker, you're recognized. Thank, Madam speaker and members briefly strongly support this measure and very pleased that our colleague is bringing it forward. The And respectfully, the scenarios that have been brought forth to you, it would be illegal. Illegal under California law for a prosecutor to prosecute somebody for doing that. And so it's important to understand well the in theory that may sound like a problem. In fact, sc prosecutors will not do what you just heard. And it's important to recognize this bill is very, very much a necessary bill and I urge your support in favor of good policy and not a novo vote based on a hypothetical that is illegal under California law. Thank you. Thank you seeing no further discussion or debate. Oh, I'm I beg your pardon in doctor Cork, you are recognized. Yeah. It's already there's already a ten year prohibition for owning a gun if it's a mis domestic violence violation. I think that's a good long time. I could be in support of this bill if someone who had had a long record. And if you want to change from ten years to twenty, I could do that a long clear record would then be exon and able to exercise all their civil rights. I just think that a lifetime ban is too much. Thank you. Thank you assembly member of Melinda you recognized. Thank you, Madam speaker. We've had a discussion about this, the author and I and and I certainly understand what you're trying to do. And I think your intentions are are genuine. But there are a few issues some some already brought up by some of the previous speakers, but I spoke with my district attorney's office this morning about this bill. And they said that You could have a situation where there is a Conviction for Mis domestic Violence in a situation where husband and wife our or boyfriend and girl know, whatever. One thinks the other is cheating on them. They get into a fight. She hits him, throws something adam him whatever. It goes to court. She can be and and there are many times or that happens where he or she is convicted of mis domestic violence. So does that person deserve to have a lifetime ban for owning a firearm because of something like that? There are some things that fall into this area that I think most of us would agree probably shouldn't result in a lifetime band. There are some certainly that do. But we are lump everyone into the same category, which I think is an unfair way to address this issue. There's probably some ways this bill could be tightened up a little bit. But I also would caution you in making such a sweeping change like this because you are going to be in ent a lot of people in this law that deserve not to be in there. Thank you. Thank you. I see no further request to speak. Assembly member Rubio would you like to close. Thank you very much I just want to say that domestic violence seasonal no race ethnicity, or gender. It impacts every community here in California. And I down here today with survivors of domestic from domestic violence with every community and I ask her support, this is also cod find the federal law that already impose a lifetime ban. So California for some reason is is not in line with Federal law which is surprising to me because California is usually the leading state in issues like this, so I respectfully ask for your Vote. Thank you. Madam, please open the role. All members Vote who Desired Both. All members vote who desire to vote. All members vote who desire to vote. All members vote who desire to vote. Ms? This Rubio moves a call. With that objection, we are moving back to item one and twenty five av twenty eight sixty five Madam please read. At assembly twenty eight sixty five by member David Chew and actually Transportation. Thank you. Two you are recognized. Thank, Madam speaker, Colleagues xavier twenty eight sixty five as a district bill to allow the San Francisco County transportation Authority to utilize manage lanes to alleviate congestion on the I two eighty and Us one and one quarters. Which runs through San Francisco and connects to San mateo and Senegal clara counties. The barriers is suffering an intense congestion crisis last year barry resident sat in Grid lock for almost eighty hours on top of their already awful commute. Manage lanes incentivize carp transit use and passenger efficiency without adding more cars to the road. They already exist in Santa clara County and Mateo County is currently performing environmental evaluations. Unfortunately, our city does not currently have the ability to implement manage express lanes on the quarter I mentioned, despite existing authority in our neighboring counties. I look forward to continuing efforts with stakeholders throughout the barrier as this bill progresses through the legislative process. And with that, I respectfully ask for your vote. Thank you. Seeing no discussion or debate, Madam Clerk, please open the role All Members Vote The Desired Vote. All Members Vote Who Desire To Vote. All members Vote who desire to vote. 