I'll wave on ten fourteen, I'll just present on fourteen thirty seven. Okay. Froze yours. Sb fourteen thirty seven is basically addresses the fact that California's murder statute is broad. And what's happened over time is that prosecutors have increasingly widened their application of that murder statute. Bringing a murder charge even when a death was accidental, unintentional, or occurred without the individual who's being charged knowledge. The result is that we have many people who did not commit murder who are then charged with first degree murder and then served disproportionately long sentences. For example, seventy two percent of the women now held in California's state facilities who are incarcerated under this doctrine and have received life sentences did not commit murder. So what Sb fourteen thirty seven does is narrows California murder statute that the sentence more accurately reflects it's not just that the sentence, but rather the ability to charge and thus the sentence that follows the charge more accurately reflects the person's c ability for the crime. So that those who intentionally planned or actually committed the murder or had more direct involvement would be the only ones who would be able to be charged with felony Murder. This aligns California with a number of other states who have acted similarly states such as Arkansas, Kentucky, Ohio, Massachusetts, Hawaii and Michigan have all narrowed their murder statute in the similar way that fourteen thirty seven proposes. Additionally, fourteen thirty seven establishes a process for res reset for those who were charged with felony murder in the most egregious type of ways. And in the long run, and this is where it's german to approach, that will save millions of dollars. Well, in the short run, if we fix the murder statute, then we will not be in the future putting people in for life without parole who did not have this more direct role in the crime. But in for those who may may possibly be res. If you are incarcerated at h age twenty, under this old policy and you live to seventy in our state facility, which is currently at about eighty thousand a year the cost for that one individual is four million. So that does not include the costs for medical care for the aging population and our corrections budget medical care costs alone went up by two billion in the last four years. So with that, I would like my witnesses and support. I have Jack Wilson from who is the S public defender and Kate Chad from Restored Justice California. Thank you. Support. My name is Jo Wilson and deputy public defender with the San Francisco defender office. This is my father, Mack Wilson, and he's a retired air force sergeant. He served in Vietnam two two tours of duty with distinction. He's my hero and my inspiration. We are here because my younger brother is charged with felony murder. This is true. Even though my brother did not kill anyone, nor a attempt to kill anyone, nor intend to kill any anyone. He wasn't even present at the scene. But under the felony murder rule, none of that matters. Sb fourteen thirty seven does not abolish the felony murder rule. It merely limits its application My family is not the only family which has been devastated by this antiquated practice. The felony murder rule has taken the heaviest toll on young people, women and people of color. This toll can only be measured in heartbreak. My eighty three year old fathers last wish, is to be able to hug his son again. My niece, her wish is to be reunited with her father, who is not a killer. It cost over eighty thousand dollars annually to incarcerated a person This bill save taxpayers millions. Further, effective lawyers leave no on turn when lit mitigating a encompass liability felony murder cases. That means that cases aren't the trial court for years prior to trial. This can cost the courts and counties hundreds of thousands of dollars per defendant. The people we are talking about are not murderers despite their label. They are sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, friends and community members. Over thirty years ago, the California Supreme Court called the Felony Murder rule Barbaric and asked this legislature to fix it. You all have the power to make that change. We urge you to support Sb fourteen thirty seven. Thank you. Thank you. Additional witnesses and support. Yes. Thank you. My name is Kate Chad. I'm the policy director for restored justice. Sb fourteen thirty seven is a rule of individual responsibility. It is a bedrock principle of the law and of fairness that a person should be for his or her actions according to his or her own level of individual responsibility and not for the actions of another. Life sentences for non perpetrators of the Fatal act, not only fails to place blame squarely where it belongs, but it approaches cruel and unusual punishment. And when there is an unjust law, it needs to be addressed. We believe that Senate Bill fourteen thirty seven will not only address and Unjust law. But we agree with the analysis that it will result in major long term cost savings to the state. To the extent that there are near term expenses associated with some number of people who would be eligible for resent and. We are of course, the author and our organization and other coast sponsors are willing to work together and with any opposition to significantly reduce the fiscal impact on the courts of res resent. Thank you. Additional witnesses apart. Good morning, Andrea tray Perry with Californian for safety and justice. We are c sponsors of this legislation and really hope for an eye but. Thank you. Hi Isabella Death on behalf of the advocates for justice support sb fourteen thirty seven. Ig Hernandez is on behalf of the California attorneys for criminal justice and support. My name My name is Dennis Flynn, and I'm a founder and lead advocate for cares for youth, the Statewide organization, to reform extreme sentences for youth. And also the parent of a young daughter. These are two of my daughters. So one's fifteen ones two in this picture, My oldest daughter has served twenty two years have a thirty three year to life sentence under the felony Murder rule, not present. Or planned to anything in terms of murder. And one of the people that was actually there was out in five years. Kevin Baker with American Civil Union Of California support. Thank you, additional and support. An opposition, please come forward. Finance. No file. File. Comments your questions from committee center bell? Just a couple questions. So when we looked at the staff estimate and it talks about the cost and then the cost savings When I look at the cost and the cost savings, I was looking at there was fourteen thousand four hundred and seventy three inmates serving a term for first degree murder and seven thousand two hundred and ninety nine serving for second degree murder. Then it says if you take ten percent would be filing petitions for recent resent and so forth. It costs some money across seven million dollars But if we took two thousand one hundred and thirty seven people times ninety thousand dollars a year that's so it's two hundred million dollars. So so my my I think, am I right? Yes. Okay. So And then you might look at the future looking down the road. That's just one year that's hundred ninety two hundred million dollars a year. So if you look at over five years, that's a billion dollars So if we can look at it more from a standpoint of what happens after this. Then the other question I have is there's some I know this is true because I visited many prison I visited the women's prison in Cha chi. There's some people that are like tried as adults and they were convicted under this statute and they weren't involved directly in the murder. But there tries adults as youngest as fifteen years old. Have you researched that issue of the under people that are is anybody research. I'll just put that. How many people were convicted under under under the age of an adult, but convicted under the statute. Has that been researched at all? Because I ran into several of men the women's prison. And as you know, senator about we're actually working on legislation to address the minor issue. But if you have any cost on this bill, right? Right. And I I'm sorry. I don't. On those who were sentenced to under this Section one eighty nine as minors, but I can tell you that that number is significant. And that's who were as young as fourteen perhaps there was fifteen when I was there So I you say fourteen or some hundred. And hopefully that will be addressed. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. That's only question. Just want to point those things Any additional questions. Welcome, sir, It's great to have you here and thank you for your service. Senator or would you like to close? I think the witnesses were quite articulate about the need for this. And I think that while it's this is the probes committee, it's appropriate think about it in terms of what the financial implications are both for savings for the future and then also, of course the possible cost of res sensing. I think that the real way we need to look at this is that we are our charging for crimes and our sentencing for crime should be a proportionate to the person's c ability to the crime. And I think as was mentioned, the California Supreme Court's own indication that our lack of appropriately limiting our murder statute has had a very the result has been a very barbaric practice. So as was said, we are not eliminating felony murder. We there will still be clearly the ability to charge murder for those who Intentionally committed a homicide for Those who plan to homicide for those who paid for a homicide for any number of more direct and intentional roles, but there still remains on our books and to murder accessory to murder all of those other things stand on the books. It is purely that this bill Sb sp fourteen thirty seven would make sure that our felony murder charge was brought for those people c for that charge. And I asked for consideration. Thank you, Centers Can to work on this issue. Clearly So this again, reminds me the whole tough on crime era where we should have always been smarter on crime. Thank you for your work on this issue without objection, we move this item to this assistance sun's counter. And I think we are I'm not sure if we're taking amendments in the committee are not, but if there are coa authors who want to be added and on, we're happy to do so. Absolutely. You can add me, please? Yes. Thank you. We will discuss that during the suspense file Thank you. Senator We. I see. There he is. Well, you have two items? I do. Let's begin the both suspense items let's begin with S sp ten twenty four, please. Good. Thank you, mr Chair vice chair members. For your consideration I had before you senate a bill ten twenty four which brings changes to California's handling of animal abuse offenders. Over the past several decades, study after study has supported the fact that there exist an undeniable link between animal abuse and violence toward people. We know that seventy one percent of domestic violence of offenders abuse animals at some point. We've seen that seventy percent of most violent inmates also abused animals in their history. And sadly, we know that ninety percent of mass shooting suspects have also per abuse on animals. We know all this yet currently we're not utilizing this knowledge for positive change Sb sp ten twenty four will allow us to redirect the most serious animal abuse offenders into mental health evaluations and treatments so that we can identify and address the underlying cause of their violent behavior and begin to weaken the link between animal cruelty and tragic acts of violence committed later by many of these same offenders. Additionally, this bill will implement a mandatory animal owner education course to ensure animal abuse offenders rooted and ignorance are not repeated. We've read the data We've seen anecdotal proof in our domestic violence shelters, our schools and on the nightly news. We know the link between animal violence and future violence towards people is strong but it isn't an un break. And speed ten twenty four is a big step in the right direction to ensure California's criminal. Justice system is being adequately utilized as a mechanism of intervention and rehabilitation for animal abuse offenders. Currently, assignment to mental health counseling is limited to one animal abuse code section, and there is no provision in statute allowing for any education for those offenders. This bill expand the utilization to mental health treatment for these offenders to eight animal abuse coat sections and will implement first of its kind education program for animal abusers. We believe the cost associated with this bill will be minor and absorb as our data indicators would not affect a large number of offenders. In San Bernardino County, for example, twenty seventeen saw just forty six total animal abuse crimes with only thirty three falling under those sections where mental health evaluations would be needed. Up those thirty three, twenty nine are already subject to mental health treatment under current law. Costs associated with the court itself are non rei under government Code section seventeen five five six and so those should not be factored in to the cost of this bill. With that, I respectfully ask for your iv vote when appropriate. Thank you. Witnesses support, please going forward. Social compassion and legislation and support. Additional when witnesses assistance support. When is an opposition? 