presenting how times presenting someone ever takes. Yes. There we go. Called teamwork mark. Okay. This is item thirty nine a three one two nine. Thank you, Madam Chair committee members. First, I'd like to fed chair and the committee staff for working with my office on my bill and I would like to accept the amendments. Today, I'm presenting a thirty one twenty nine a bill to enhance public safety by keeping guns out of the hands of those already prohibited from having them. In light of the most recent mass shootings, the national spotlight has focused on gun laws and their impact on society. Ab thirty one and twenty nine aligns with Federal law by imposing a lifetime ban on the position of a firearm for people who have been convicted of a mis domestic violence offense. This is one this is one of the rare instances where California is more lenient than the federal law. This is we are not creating a new class of prohibited persons not owning a fire, but merely helping keep guns out of the hands of those already prohibited from having them. Current state law is in adequate to fully protect survivors of domestic violence. According to the Los angeles Office in twenty seventeen, eighty four point nine percent and I will say that again for for more for a little added drama this issue. Eighty four point nine percent of the felony firearm cases that the family violence division filed, the defendant had a prior mis domestic violence conviction. That was in twenty seventeen, eighty four nine percent of the of the gun violence had prior mis. Abused women are five times more likely to be killed if their abuse own firearm and domestic violence assaults involving a gun are twelve times more likely to end in death than assaults with other weapons or physical harm. According to the National coalition against domestic Violence, domestic Violence is one of the most chronically under reported crimes, only twenty five percent of all physical assaults per against females by their partners are reported to the police. Only twenty five. This means that seventy five percent go un reported. There is a very real connection between past domestic violence and a propensity for future violence including mass shootings. Tragically, children are the most common victims of domestic mass shootings. While there are no government statistics on how many children are killed in domestic violence situations. The Huffington post found that children under seventeen years old. Made up the largest group of victims in this study. And while we sit here and discuss the of the violence mis offenses Nearly three Us women every day are killed by an intimate partner and nearly fifty percent of those domestic violence crimes go un reported The federal bureau of justice statistics is that it says that an average of seven hundred and sixteen thousand instances of non fatal domestic violence were reported to police. Annually over the past decade gate and five hundred and eighty two thousand instances went un reported. For those who question why single domestic violence. Well, I hope I was able to shed light not only the data, but most importantly, the hundreds of thousands of lives that have been lost or affected by domestic violence abuse involving a firearm. I have a personal story My own sister is a survivor domestic violence abuse and her restraining order expires soon. How many other survivors are there outdoor there nearing expiration of their the restraining orders? I cannot imagine what is going to happen. The question of what happens after a restraining order is yet to be unanswered, and I don't want to find by sister as a statistic. And I know that many of these women are in our statistics today. What I I would like to introduce to you here to testify and support of my my bill. I have dan Fe with the This attorney's office in Amanda that Wi with The Brady campaign and Crystal N with the California partnership to end domestic Lions. Thank you. May proceed. Chairman members Stan auto on behalf of the Los Angeles County district attorney's office. As you heard, the statistics for our family violence unit are horrendous when it comes to individuals who escalate to felony conduct. That is the unique thing about mis domestic violence compared to the other offenses on that ten year prohibition list. Domestic violence has incredibly high rates of rec and it tends to always escalate. So an individual commits mis goes on to commit the felony domestic violence. The statistics show that there approximately or a little over a million women in the United States today who have been shot or shot at by their partner and another four point four point five million dollars who have been threatened by a gun from their intimate partner. Federal law already prohibits the possession of firearms by anybody convicted of domestic violence anywhere in the country. Though it is federal also as a deputy district attorney, I'm unable to bring these charges. And honestly the U. S attorneys, this is not their highest priority. So these cases aren't brought that often. Our office reviewing records so we were unable to review all of our family of violence cases just volume. But we found cases both within the tenure year limitation and beyond the ten year limitation where an individual has escalated and used the firearm to shoot at a least committed felony against an intimate partner. One of the things we found though is often the perpetrator the felony victim is different from the mis victim. These individuals who commit domestic violence, it doesn't matter what relationship they're in. It's the relationship they're in at the time. When they escalate. Domestic violence and rape are the two crimes that run across both racial and ethnic lines. It's a crime that exists. In all of aspects of our community today. We think this is a common sense proposal. I personally have handled a mis domestic violence case that this would been within the ten year limitation. But within a few weeks, I turned into a homicide. This is a very common occurrence, unfortunately. And so for that reason we asked for your support on this bill as amended. Good afternoon, Madam chair members of committee, Kristen With the California partnership to end domestic violence. You've already heard the staggering the statistics about the deadly intersection of firearms and domestic violence. And I know that this committee is no stranger to the issue and has worked on a range of solutions to address this from the ops database and making sure that is fully funded to making sure that firearms are taking out of the hands of those who have committed to must've balance. This bill A thirty one twenty nine, we are pleased to support because it does, as has previously said, really align California with the federal lifetime prohibition on ownership and possession of a firearm once there is a domestic imbalance conviction. It's really in recognition of that the very deadly intersection that exists both in the immediate relationship that leads to that conviction. And that can continue. We've seen too often the intersection and the deadly recurrence, I feel like we come before this committee too often to speak of those that we've lost to domestic violence, homicide so many of which in involve firearms arms. So you know, I think that my prior witnesses have already touched on the key policy elements. I'll just say this is something that we feel like aligns with. The work to make sure that firearms are out of the hands of those who are most dangerous and those survivors are and given those increased protection. So respectfully asked for your eye vote. Next witness and support Comfortable being that yes okay. That's fine. Amanda Wi on behalf of the California chapters of the Brady campaign prevent violence. Some of the statistics I heard stunned me and were new to me. One that was not mentioned that I will share is that an analysis of Fbi data shows that fifty four percent of mass shooting events from two thousand and nine to twenty sixteen were related to the domestic or family violence. So there's often a domestic violence component. In these very high profile public mass shootings, just another piece of it. The Brady campaign core mission is to keep firearms out of dangerous hands. And obviously, domestic of violence offenders, we would consider dangerous hands. Pass violent behaviors, predictor, a future acts of violence, and as you hear with domestic violence, it tends to be escalating, behavior. So we definitely support a lifetime prohibition as is federal law and in the rare cases where California law is weaker than federal law we support matching laws so that we have some control over enforcement make sure it happens. And then one other point is with the arm prohibited person system, program, which as you know Doj cross checks databases to disarm prohibited people who have who purchase firearms legally and then became prohibited. And I recently learned that part of the backlog issue is that if it's a federal prohibition, Doj is not a position where they can disarm those people. So it's another reason for this to be a California prohibition as well as I urge your support. Thank you other witnesses and support. Quick bay areas due to activists and support. Thank you. Great. Alright. Opponents. Imagine I'm open. This is... Okay. I'm Characterize Barr in the California Public Defender Association. I understand the problem here. I spent three years going every day to domestic felony domestic violence court. My daughter's a victim of domestic violence. I understand the problem. At the same time, public defenders, we believe that there's a difference between felony and a mis and we believe in rehabilitation. This bill blur that difference and the the mis is the more likely rehab person we think they should be given a chance to. Whether one agrees with gun possession or not, it is a constitutional right. And there should ought be a chance for at least a mis meeting who has the chant the possibility of rehabilitation. I heard the statistics here. I believe them. I'm not questioning them. However, they don't include how many of these repeat with a gun, we're after a period of ten years. We don't know we can guess But I think we need a little more information before we say there's no discretion in this. If this if they were an amendment saying that there was some discretion. Certainly we would at least have to reconsider our position, but I don't think the absolute position is justified in this case. Next. Good afternoon, Lucy with the, California. Unfortunately, we are also in opposition to this bill. We do appreciate the amendments as we understand them. These go in the right direction, but we are still opposed want echo the comments from the public defender, I think you know we absolutely understand that domestic balance is a very serious issue. It causes a lot of harm in our communities. And I think that a lot of the statistics that we heard really underline the amount of harm that it causes and how serious it is. But I do agree that we didn't hear statistics that actually point to why extending a ten year ban till lifetime ban would actually change any of those statistics. And so you know, what we do believe about Ab three one hundred twenty nine is that it does perpetuate a very harmful and un stereotype that a person who has ever been convicted of a crime is forever inherently dangerous. And know, regardless of how long ago, the crime was committed regardless of how successful their rehabilitation has been since then. We We heard a statistic from the Los Angeles Citrus attorney about the high of rec for domestic violence. For people who have rec, they don't need this bill. They're already gonna be banned from possessing a firearm it doesn't need to be extended for life. So this bill is only gonna impact people who don't. Excuse me. I also just want to point out that under current law police officers if a police officer is convicted of the same events for a mis, they can actually petition again their gun back immediately. They don't even have to wait ten years. So under this bill, which doesn't change that law, they can police officers can get their gun back. But civilians would would be faced with a lifetime ban. This ban is not without consequences. Someone who comes into possession of a firearm even if it's forty years after a single mis conviction, no crime ever since then, they can be prosecuted and incarcerated for a felony. This is going to have a disproportionate impact on community's color. We heard again from the idea that domestic violence is situation that affects across ethnic lines. There is a lot more disproportionate impact of gun gun laws. According to the Doj in two thousand sixteen, a fourth of the people who were arrested for felony weapons offenses were black and nearly half of Let latino. This is compared to six point five percent of the general population black thirty nine percent or let latino. So we do believe in gun control, we want gun control that protects the public and that does not discriminate, and we don't think that that this is it. We do think that it stigma ties people with with convictions and they would have a disproportionate impact on communities of color. For those reasons we are. Thank you. Other witnesses in opposition. Alright. Questions from the d. I think you madam chair and I definitely want to applaud the author for doing what she feels is prudent to. Keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people. Having served in local government for a number of years including ten on the board supervisors and doing right along with sheriff, the most troubling calls, of course, or domestic violence. And usually there's sometimes out all involved or some drugs involved. And usually it's sometimes it could be a man and a woman or a man in a man or a woman or woman pushing each other and then when the police come what they do is they rest them both. And they charge them both. And and my concern is that for a little sc they get mis meter charges filed against them that you have a situation where a single mother as an example may not be able to arm herself for the rest of her life, which I think is very onerous so that any appeal process or a way for her to restore those those rights. And so while I appreciate what you're doing, and if I find it very hard To believe actually siding with the Ec. I think it's the first time in four years. I've done that But I guess I find ourselves united on this one issue and for those reasons I can't support you. Well, just to clarify to your point on the on the minor sc the amendments that we took specifically said that we're taking amendments to focus on a more serious domestic violence. Mister fence is not just a minor sc and that was working with the chair and the committee. Specifically, the amendment is that it now only covers domestic violence mis maintenance who have caused an injury. So those who were convicted under section two seven three point of the code. Okay. So so to... Because we were aware of the, you know, situations get heated and the minor pushes were we considered that based on the committee's recommendation to address the specific. I do appreciate that I'm so concerned about the ability to, you know, appeal and potentially restore your your rights. Good. Can I heard on that amendment? I was not aware of that particular amendment but without seeing the text, I have to wonder what it really means because two seventy three point five mis already requires a condition. And romantic condition turns out to be very slight. Brendan year. I had the clients of mind convicted I revenue ear. And so Without seeing a definition about in I have to say from the existing traumatic vehicle. Mister Bill Su, you can respond. P Section two seventy three point five and I and I'm sorry on my codes with me, but and it's been a while since prosecute mismatch. But two seventy three point five defines what the injury is what level I think it's yeah, it's going to say traumatic condition, which is defined. So it would not alter what is already the law today. But I think it just appropriate to point out that if it is a more serious injury is than a felony. So the Bug defenders point that the that code is while it must be an injury, it can be a mild door injuries. For the chair. Two seventy three point five is a wander. So depending on the level of injury, the district attorney can file that as a felony or a mis. In my experience, the typical mis were, you know, the black eye, You know, the the the bloody nose those were being filed as the mis, the more serious type of injuries were being filed as the felony. Right And also, if I may add to address the issue reserve a bit I can't even see the word sometimes. This. I'm a second language Don't know I tag. Going back and forth. The the problem the difference between domestic violence is as we read in statistics as a lot of these cases that are reported. So, of course, there is no because they don't get reported. And and it's not like, you know, somebody got caught stealing when they get caught stealing, they get caught stealing they get taken in. If they get caught stealing again, then they get take again and you can track know, the amount of times that they have been incarcerated or picked that. In this case, the domestic violence victims don't report. And that's where where this bill I see would is my concern or This is what I'm trying to address is because these these victims don't report or end reporting, this is where this comes in and it's not a drastic changed to the federal law. Unfortunately, the federal law like but indicated the Us prosecutors are not going to come down and prosecute. So there is a difference between Federal law, California. So my hope is to align California's domestic Violence gun lost to the federal law. Right? Other comments from the d. Okay. Would you like to close I respectfully ask her for your eye vote. Thank you. Is there a motion and it's the bill is amended. Right. So we have a motion. Roll call in the drill. Motion is due pass as amended to appropriation skinner. Hi. Skinner I Anderson? No. Anderson no Bradford, Jackson, Mitchell. Stone, stone no. Miner. I'll call. On call. Good. Thank. Sorry. So we're gonna start on... One we just for beginning. Yeah. Okay. We're gonna start on... Start test consent again I... No I can wait. I'll wait for that. Excuse me? You want to start three and go through the time? Yes. That's what I do. Start at a b five fourteen. And that one there was amended Excuse me. So go ahead. We can do roll calls. Okay. A five one four motion due pass as amended to appropriation, skinner. Skinner eye Anderson? Anderson I, Bradford, Jackson, Mitchell? S right? Stone I wiener. Those on calls. Okay. Those right. So bill's on calls will now go to item five eighty twelve fourteen, assembly member stones. Promotion is due pass to pro appropriation skinner. I. Skin her eye, Anderson Anderson I Bradford, Jackson, Mitchell Hi. Mitchell I stone. Wiener, right. On call. Alright. Item seven a b seventeen fifty one. Motion is due pass as amended to appropriation skinner? I. Skinner eye Anderson. Alright. Anderson I Bradford, Jackson, Mitchell. Mitchell I stone stone I wei. Kong. That's it. Yes. Yes it was. Yes. And with more amendments than even more listed. Thank you. Alright. Item eight, a b seventeen fifty two, low. Motion is due pass to appropriation skinner? I. Skinner eye, Anderson. Alright. Anderson I, Bradford, Jackson, Mitchell? No. Mitchell No, stone. Stone I. Wiener. Okay. Number ten, eighty seventeen ninety three going. Motion is due pass to appropriation skinner hi skinner eye Anderson? No. Anderson now, Bradford, Jackson, Mitchell, mitchell I stone. Pardon me? Moment. Okay. Wiener. Right. Item eleven maybe nineteen fourteen, so that was full apologies gold. Okay. Item thirteen a nineteen ninety three. Don't think we did have We don't have motion yet. Thank you. Motion is do pass to the floor, skinner. I skin eye Anderson. Alright. Anderson I Bradford. Jackson Mitchell Mitchell I stone. Stone I wiener. Brian Will bill will be on call. Item fifteen ab twenty fifty eight. Motion on that one. So move with the amendments. Yeah. It's straight. Thank you. Yeah. Motion is due pass as amanda to the floor skinner, skinner eye Anderson. Alright. Anderson I Bradford. Jackson Mitchell? Mitchell I stone, stone I wei. Okay. Next item is ab twenty one hundred thirty eight, to Item sixteen. We had no. Okay. Thank you. Motion is due pass to appropriation skinner. I skin eye Anderson. No Anderson no Bradford, Jackson, mitchell mitchell eye. Stone no wiener. Okay. Then we will now go to item twenty a twenty two forty mister G. Right Sorry I set apologies. Twenty thousand seventeen. Item seventeen eighty twenty one seventy two. We need a motion. Now I haven't. You have motion. Sorry. Yeah. Motion is due pass to a appropriation skinner? I skinner eye, Anderson. No. Anderson no, Bradford. Jackson's Mitchell Mitchell I stone? Stone no wiener. Alright. Now item twenty two item twenty eighty twenty two forty. Correct. Great. Motion is due pass to the floor skinner. Hi skinner I, Anderson. Alright. Anderson I Bradford, Jackson Mitchell. Mitchell No? Stone? Stone ai wei. Wow apologies it's not looking at my notes. Hold on one second. 