assembly member two sawyer. And fellow chair of the Public Committee on the other house. Remember you may begin. Well, thank you. Madam care remember. Sixty five addresses the growing issue of of organized retail crime, which is affected local businesses and communities throughout the state. In twenty seventeen, the National Retail federation Nr conducted the organized retail crime survey and found that organized retail theft continues to be a pervasive problem within the industry. The survey stated that ninety five percent of the merchants reported having been a victim of coordinated theft, resulting in revenue losses estimated at thirty billion dollars per year. While California often creates model statues replicated in other states in the case of organized retail crime, thirty four states have already adopted statute specific to this crime. Each state has crafted a statue specific to their needs. Ab ten five has been drafted to address this pervasive problem while preserving the public safety reforms already in place. As you may know, several bills attempting to address this issue were introduced last year. Unfortunately, all of those proposals contain approaches to this issue that I could not support despite the authors attempts to narrowly address career criminals engaged in organized crime retail theft. At the time, I committed to working with stakeholders to identify a multi pronged approach balanced enough to provide our criminal justice reforms that have enough to buy preserve, our criminal justice reforms that have benefited all Californian. The built before you today is the product of this collaboration. Specifically Ab ten five, that's the following. Creates a new organized retail crime statute punishable with a wobble. Allows law enforcement to take an individual into custody on an arrest for any mis miner if they have been convicted, cited or arrested of theft from retailers twice within the previous year. Expands jurisdiction fourth cases and allows authorities to combine theft incidence across multiple counties. A ten sixty five was crafted in a manner to exclude that for personal use. It is not my intention to include people stealing food, simply because they are hungry. I introduced this bill to address sophisticated crime that are taken advantage of loopholes in our state law. With organized retail crime activity becoming pervasive, laws facilitating better collaboration between law enforcement and businesses are necessary to improve our justice systems response. We have a broad coalition from business, labor and law enforcement in support of this bill. Here with me today is Michelle Jones Senior Director Asset Protection for Rite aid, and Jim E, Is executive Directed U w Western States Council and there's a third person here, but we'll figure it out. Would you like your witnesses to proceed? Yes. Alright. Go ahead. Thank you. Bill Humber, California retailer association. What you have in front of you is a product of about a years of work, but intense working over the last nine months. I need to thank assembly member Jones Sawyer for his efforts I need to thank Chairman skinner for her efforts. I need to thank the staff, public safety, assembly and senate. For their help. I particularly need to thank the governor's office for stepping up when we came to them with this problem. I brought Michelle Jones here senior loss prevention person rite aid and wanted her to describe how we intend to use this law. So I'll turn over to Michelle. Go ahead. Good morning, Madam and members. My name is Michelle Jones, and I'm a retail asset protection practitioner who's been in this industry for over thirty years. I started off my career as a store detective and have firsthand hand knowledge of what retailers and law enforcement faces with these organized retail theft crimes. I'm here today to share with you my and rite aid full support for A ten five. It is not only a bell that will address the organized retail theft it will also address series safety concerns in our stores. Let me share with you the reasons why I believe this bell is critical to California. This bill addresses the increase in aggressive shop lifting activity that arises out of prop forty seven, which reduced shop to a mis of products totaling less than nine fifty. This has bold in shop lifters who organize in teams. This increase in aggressive behavior was immediate once the criminals understood the change in law. The criminal shop know there is no penalty and very little risk. They walk into our stores in large teams and overtake a store. These teams will push, shove and assault our associates if we attempt to stop them because there's just no fear. We have had to coach our associates to back off because many times it just too dangerous for them to approach. This bill provides a support to too law enforcement and addresses this issue. This bill also addresses the concerns with aggregation language and allows law enforcement to charge subjects with a felony if there is three or more shop incidents, which you equates to a toll of over nine fifty and one year. For example, today, a team of shop can steal nine hundred forty nine dollars or less in five different stores in one afternoon each one of these incidence is treated as a simple mis. California it's attracting this level of shop because of the lack of Legislation and aggregation. This past month in Texas, there was over three a million dollars of over the counter product recovered. It's a significant amount of this product has been trace back to Theft in California. This aggregation language allows law enforcement to investigate nda to prosecute these types of cases. This is not the case now because these offenses are treated as simple mis. This bell also allows us to press charges to these teams when they cross jurisdictions. If a shop apprehended in one jurisdiction, this jurisdiction extends to where the other offenses occurred. And as you heard earlier, thirty four other states currently have legislation on the books. California does not and we are one of the largest economies. California is long overdue for this Legislation. And so we ask you to pass this bill to allow us to address these organized retail theft teams in our stores. Thank you. Next witness. Thank you, Madam chair. Members. My name is Jim E. I'm the Executive Director of the United Commercial work with Western State's Council. And I we're here to urge your On this bill. W has always been supporter of criminal justice reforms and second chances because they have allowed those formerly incarcerated an equal opportunity to earn a living wage. The labor movement recognizes the tremendous value of providing these individuals, the ability to contribute to the economy, a meaningful role in society often leads to successful rehabilitation, integration into the community and reduces rec. However, organized retail theft has been an ongoing pervasive issue in our industries. We have always fought tirelessly for good working conditions and higher wages. When stores are impacted by theft so our workers. Strive to maintain a safe working environment for our workers with such activity occurring in the workplace. Our members Morale sense of security is Shaken. We acknowledge the need to change the circumstances. Our members are face when organized we tok manifest in the stores that they work in. The building for you does just that Ab ten sixty five has been crafted in a way to ensure our prison system isn't further exacerbated by low level deaths such as that high school kids stealing for the first time, This bill takes more targeted approach and addresses those stealing through large organized criminal enterprises. Furthermore the more strengthens the existing enforcement to ensure the activity can be prosecuted in various jurisdictions where offenses occurred and allows law enforcement to utilize existing mechanisms to app, only those that have demonstrated involvement with organized theft rings. We complement the authors and bank the committee staff for working with stakeholders on a balanced approach narrowly tailored to addressing the habit individual and organized theft activity. And the last thing I want to say is while some some can play politics here, our members cannot wait for politics to change and we we really urgently need fixing in the solution we urge both for Ab ten sixty five. Thank you very much. We have other witnesses in support. Madam chair members is Amy Brown on behalf of Safe Albert support. Thank you. Madam members, Dan is auto on behalf the Los Angeles county district attorney's office and support. Michelle Tomas representing Alameda County district attorney Mali support. Gail Stewart on behalf of San Diego County District Attorney somerset stefan in support. Good morning, Madam Chair remember. Stacy Dwell on behalf of Target Corporation and the Home Depot and want to echo that comments and thinking the authors and the governor's office for working closely with this on this. Any other witnesses in support about witnesses and opposition. Alright. Questions by committee members? Go ahead. Senator Anderson. I'd be happy to move the bill. Right. So we have the bill moved. I wanted to just express my appreciation for the very thorough process that the stakeholders engaged in. Because clearly when there was some discussion of this last year, folks like myself wanted to avoid a stance where we were, sweeping up individuals who... For example, might for the first time be shop or other type of circumstances like that. And I think that the bill has been crafted very carefully and obviously from the indication of the witnesses and the author, there was really a very thorough process with speaking to folks to figure out how to do this. I raised that subsequent to the discussions that I was involved in, I then observed that the not my district, but very close by there was a warehouse in Fremont California. That the police in fremont were monitoring because they noticed that there was these lot of activity. And then there were containers in this warehouse that were then being taken to the port of Oakland. They were being filled up and being taken to the Port of Oakland and shipped elsewhere and the containers, what they were being filled up with were small electronics. And the small electronics had been stolen, and the it was a family that was running this entire operation. And much of the goods were not not all. They were from all over, but we're from San Francisco. And but it was the Fremont police who cracked it because of their monitoring of this warehouse. So I think that in this I think that your bill helps to get at those people that were were in effect selling to that family who were then filling those containers and sending them overseas. So my recommendation for the bill is a support and we have now a motion unless there's any other comment, I will allow assembly remember jones sawyer to close. And I wanna thank everyone from the governor's office to share up public safety a senate it. And our partners in this, because it's truly been a collaborative effort as someone who don't always enjoy law enforcement support on my bills and I'm probably alumni member of the job killer bill that have the cow chamber endorsed one of my bills is I may even frame that. And also to have they also have support across party lines is extremely important especially when it comes to this bill. And I'll leave you with this. We can get these things done through the legislative process. And I think it's really important that we get ten sixty five done it will get to solving a problem quickly and immediately, but most important, I think it will show that both houses can get things done administrative based on the fact that we are tough on on crime, but we also are very, very strong our rehabilitation and so what that ask for your support. Thank you. So we will take a roll call. Skinner motion is do pass to appropriation. Correct. Skinner? Hi. Skinner eye, Anderson Anderson Hi Bradford. Jackson. Bradford I, Jackson, Mitchell. Eyes stone wiener. Thank you with the bill. We will hold the roll open till my missing committee members show up. And we I am now turning the over to my vice chair senator Anderson while I go to the Desk can present my bill. We have an author is an author prepared 