Alright. I would like to begin our assembly banking committee for Monday June twenty fifth. I believe one we do have short one. We're short one of quorum. So we will start our committee hearing as a sub until we have an additional member. We do have a sign in list and we will begin with senator Glacier for Sb sp twelve thirty five. We didn't put any time limits on it, but I will ask for b in in comments that are made. So with that, I will have you begin senator. Thank you. Thank you chip. Chair. Senate bill twelve thirty five would give to small business owners, many of the same protections that our country's truth and lending laws have given consumer borrowers for more than half a century. This bill would require lenders and finance companies to provide clear and consistent disclosure to small business owners when they offer them financing and when they close a deal. This information would help small business owners understand the cost and the consequences are the financing options available to them in the rapidly evolving commercial lending market. Until now our truth and lending laws have applied only to consumer finance Business owners were left to fend for themselves on the theory that they were sophisticated merchants who understood the world of finance. Increasingly, however, that is no longer true. Today's small business owners are often immigrant entrepreneurs struggling to get their enterprises off the ground with little knowledge of the finance industry. Traditional banks meanwhile are no longer interested in making smaller loans. Instead that space is being filled by innovative lenders offering an array of financial options. This new online lending industry is bringing capital to people who badly need it, but there are abuses. This bill offers a modest measure. Disclosure to help level the plain field for small business owners. It would make California a leader in placing the interests of small business owners on par with the big players in the financial industry. Now if you borrowed money for a house or a car or simply taking out a personal loan or used a credit card, you've seen the kind of disclosures that this bill would require. They tell you how much you're borrowing. All the fees you'll be paying. How long will take you to repay the loan and the annual annual interest rate. The lenders know all this information already. Some of them even disclose it in the financial market when they package their small business loans and sell them as securities. All we're asking is that that they disclosed the same information to their customers. What's good for Wall Street should be good enough for Main Street. Now this bill has undergone extensive changes since I first introduced it in February. We've taken suggestions from many of the players in this industry and for most of the opponents, but we'll never satisfy everyone. Many of the companies that lend a small business simply do not want to disclose the terms of their loans to their customers. And many consumer finance advocates want this bill to precisely mirror the laws that govern consumer lending. Even if that might not be practical for the business lending market. Let me finish up. I think we've struck the right balance in this bill. Requires clear consistent disclosure, but does not restrict the kind of financing that lenders can offer and will not lead to any loss of access to capital in the small business world. With me today Robin Black representing the California Small Business Association and Ke Hanson, who was a c founder of nav dot com a company that helps small business owners navigate the tricky new online lending marketplace. Thank you, Charlie And members the committee for allowing me to share my support of this bill. My name is Kate Hanson, c founder in Chief legal compliance officer at nav dot com. Now was a small business credit finance platform used by more than three hundred and seventy thousand business owners in the United states including thirty five thousand in state of California. I'm speaking to you today because I believe this bill is an important step towards helping small business borrowers more easily compare sources of capital, which ultimately means more successful business in California. Consider the impact this legislation can have. Small business employees nearly half of all of California states employees. But according to the. Us Department of Labor, one hundred thousand California's small businesses close each year and the data show a top reason these businesses fell is due to poor credit arrangements. I c now for the very reason of bringing transparency and efficiency to business financing credit. I come from a small business family. My grandfather started a pool classroom company in Southern California nineteen forty eight. My cousin runs the same business today. Growing up, I watch my father work a full time job and run a small business on the side. As a small business owner of two business prior to nav I'm intimately aware of the help this bill would provide small business owners. I've seen their struggle on a daily basis and have been in their shoes. I know what it's like to feel like the successes of your business hang on whether you have the right financing or not. Transparency and efficiency are essential in the business lending world. If you haven't experienced it, it's easy to say the borrower will figure it out. They know what they're doing. The reality is that small business owners are not financial experts. These are not Fortune five hundred companies we're talking about. In fact, seventy five percent of all small businesses employ one or fewer people. These are businesses without a finance department. Running a business and having to perform finance Hr sales product development is extremely taxing. Business owners can't spend hours and hours trying to decipher for loan disclosures. That's why an annual cost of capital needs to be a part of this legislation. It's the best method we have to create quick apples to apples cost comparison. We've had this protection for consumers for years. It's already settled law. The bills opposition claim, an annual cost of capital will confuse borrowers. The fact is that an annual rate, which includes all costs, will simply reveal how expensive some of these products can be if this forces them to explain the difference between short term versus long term capital and the effect that has on an annual rate and so be it. It's better than the current system that puts all of the burden on the small business owner. We've already read that that using an annual rate is the best way for consumers to compare loans why should it be different for small business owners? Most reputable business lenders already provide an annual rate because they know it's the best way for a borrower to compare loans in terms alternative lenders such as cabbage, on deck and smart business loans are using tools such as a smart box. To provide necessary disclosures. They know it's the right thing to do. This bill just a way to standardize and require this across the industry so that the few bad apples can't continue to see business owners. This bill isn't about regulating the cost of business loans are trying to harm business lenders, which we wouldn't support. That are legitimate times when a triple digit annual rate is a smart decision for business owner. But the business owner deserves to have a clear way of comparing products and knowing how much it's going to cost them. If the terms are transparent and the business owner makes a bad decision then it's on them. To claim educating a small business owner on the true cost of capital as a harm to them, simply ridiculous. Unlike the opponents, we have nothing to gain by passing this bill. We just know it's the right thing to do. We also believe it can become a model for the entire country and will positively impact millions of business owners their families and communities. On behalf of the one hundred team members at Nav, along with our thirty five thousand small business customers in the state of California I urge to pass the bill. Thank you. I will ask for quorum if we can just before we finish up if we can just call warm. Here. On here, Chen? Acosta costa here burke. Gabriel? Gabriel here, Gloria, Gonzales Fletcher. Gonzalez fletcher here. Grayson? Grayson here, Stein north. Steiner with here. Stone? Weber. Weber here. Thank you. We'll have you proceed. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, members of the committee Robin Black on behalf of the California Small business association. We are a non and nonprofit organization representing small business in California. Many of you were at our lunch and last week with your honor. We love small business, we celebrate small business, and we really want to thank the senator for bringing this bill forward. As all of you know, access to capital is the most important challenge facing small business in California and startup up businesses in particular in California as has already been stated, that transparency that this bill would provide for small businesses looking for that kind of capital, especially in the new markets online. Is something that's really important. I won't repeat everything that's already been said, but informing the consumers giving him transparency that is already there for consumer loans in California, providing it for small businesses, many of who many of whom are not as sophisticated in the finance of laws and the understanding what the true cost of loan or borrowing money can be this will go a long ways to help those individuals. So on behalf of the California Small Business association, we thank you for your time and we drive out Thanks, Robin. Any opposition? Support. Sorry. We'll start with support. If you could please state your name and association. On behalf of the Small business Finance Association, support of the bill. Any additional support? Alright. Those in opposition. Over here. Good afternoon, Madam Chair. Members of the committee My name is Ann Patterson, I'm gonna partner or a carrington su cliff and outside council for the innovative lending platform association. I feel like I'm in theater at the round here. We're here regret in opposition to Sb twelve thirty five because of the inclusion of the new metric the Acc that is in the film. The Il pay is the leading trade Association for small business lending and service companies, and our members include on debt capital, Cabbage and the business back. I want to start by making it clear that we do not oppose Sb twelve thirty five's objective here and it's attempt to create disclosures we absolutely support transparency and actually as the witness from Nav mentioned, all members of the Il already but provide borrowers with a comprehensive disclosure. It's called the Smart. It looks a little bit like the Sc box or for those of you more familiar with Cheer, the nutritional label on the back of that. We spent about eighteen months developing the smart and worked in consultation with small businesses. To identify the metrics that were most meaningful to them when they were trying to compare between financial products. And then you can see those metrics reflected here. We have total cost of capital at the top, which usually ranked as one of the highest and most meaningful for folks. We disclose Apr annual percentage rate average monthly payment, cents on dollar and whether there any prep penalties. So I'm sure you probably can't see this from here. I'm happy to provide I brought copies of people would like to see it. More closely. So we really... We did make these disclosures voluntarily because we want our small business customers to informed so that they can pick the right financing product for their use case. And we do believe, I think as the author and the other witnesses that transparency is critical to that. But we strongly oppose the twelve it's Sb twelve thirty five's inclusion of this un new metric, the Acc or Ea, because we believe that it will frustrate rather than facilitate and apples to apples comparison across products. And here's why by my little. Card. As you can see, Apr and Acc look a lot alike. They're both percentages, which is gonna cause confusion for borrowers. And these two here, Apr and Ec are this are for the exact same loan. One six month, fifty thousand dollar loan with the exact same interest and fees. You can see Apr thirty three point six Acc twenty two point six three. One's looking a lot higher than the other for the exact same loan with the same costs So this is basically Acc just like is Apr, but smaller. That to us is sort of, like introducing a new food measurement, for example, where I can look at ci and say, oh, it doesn't have nine hundred calories anymore. It has six hundred calories. And I think just like that would drive people to make bad food decisions. This Ac is gonna potentially mislead borrowers into choosing potentially more expensive products because they're gonna con Apr and Acc. And the danger is gonna occur here because borrowers are gonna be comparing different products one quoted it with Apr and one Acc. Lots of things are still gonna be quoted in. The Sc box and your credit card is still gonna have Apr. And I can tell you the credit that small business customers are gonna confuse them when they're looking at one that says Apr thirty three, the one that says this, and it's just lower. It's like buying the ci. Right? Suddenly, you're gonna pick the one that looks lower. Even though in fact, it's not the actually less expensive product, it's just a different metric entirely. So the problem is gonna I think not go away over time with this because we are gonna continue to live in an ecosystem where Apr remains. You know, the prominent metrics. So people are going to be trying really doing apples to oranges comparisons between Apr and Acc. And for us this actually just speculation when we spent... I think I mentioned we did a lot of homework when we developed Smart over eighteen months. And one of the things we did is actually consider putting a second percentage metric the Into the smart it would have had one more percentage here. And when we shared that with small business customers, it immediately cost confusion. They're like, which one's the real one? Which one is the right one? And so it just led to ton of questions and so we ultimately said, only one percentage based metric on this because it's just gonna confuse people. And so I think the concern for us is that we're either now in a position as the Il ipa of having to drop Apr entirely and replace it with the this new metric which is un from our perspective. I don't know anyone who's ever used it. I don't know if there been any studies. On whether or not it actually kind of works over time we either can replace it or we can go back to situation where we are gonna have to have two percentages on the smart again, which we know based on our own back information does cause confusion for people. So in closing, we support the concept here. We believe in transparency and disclosure but we are very concerned that this metric will be confusing for people And happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Thank you. Cheryl and committee members thank you for the opportunity to present testimony today regarding Sb twelve thirty five. My name is Kate Fisher, and I am here today on behalf of the Commercial Finance coalition. A group of responsible finance companies that provide capital to small and medium sized businesses through innovative methods. We support California's efforts to provide business financing disclosures. Cf members already disclosed the cost of financing and welcome all of the disclosure requirements of Sb twelve thirty five except for one, that is the estimated annual analyze cost of capital disclosure. For clarity, we do not oppose disclosure Instead we're advocating for an effective and accurate disclosure. Our concern is that requiring any annual percentage for financing that is not alone will mis characterize the underlying transaction. Senator Glaciers Bill recognizes that requiring an estimated analyzed cost of capital disclosure does not make sense for other non loan products, such as commercial leasing or invoice factoring. Commercial leasing is completely exempt from Sb sp twelve thirty five. An invoice factoring is exempt from the annual cost of capital disclosure. That is because commercial leasing and invoice factoring are not loans. But Sp twelve thirty five proposes to require an annual cost of capital disclosure for future receivables factoring, also not alone. This is a logical. Future receivables factoring is fundamentally different from loan. The business pays only a percentage of its receivables. For example, when wildfire swept across California last fall, a business that was damaged and could not operate would owe nothing. Because the transaction is not alone, any Apr or annual analyze cost of capital disclosure which would only confuse and mislead small business owners. I'm very optimistic that California can lead the way in providing businesses with disclosures that are hopeful and not misleading. For example, the disclosure in Sb sp twelve thirty five that would require the disclosure of total dollar cost of financing, which is currently in the bill in section twenty two eight zero two three. Thank you. Thank you. Any other witnesses in opposition, please state your name and association. Right. Hearing or seeing then, members, we will turn it over to you. Any questions or thought member Grayson? Thank you, Madam Chair. I was hearing the testimony about Apr versus Acc and it was almost like it it sounded like you was apples and oranges. Right compared between the two. So as long as the consumer or in this particular case, the business owner that was seeking a commercial loan, was aware that they were apples and oranges, then as long as they were aligning the apples together or the oranges together and comparing the right rates, then it would there wouldn't be confusion. Is that right? I think that if if people got past the similarities between them and actually sort of dug in. They could potentially say okay Acc is is basically computed completely differently. And is it designed to be a different metric? I think the hard part is when you just see Apr Acc and you've see rates. People are making quick decisions and I think they're going see thirty six percent, twenty three percent and just go with that. One of the other things I think that's problematic here is that the underlying differences, I won't even begin to try to explain because trying to say which, you know, trying to say why Apr is is computed one way and why Acc computer the other way is gonna be complicated and take up a lot of time on the phone where people try to understand which one's the real one that they're supposed to be looking at. Sure. So if we were comparing products? Yes. Whether that product from three different lenders was using Apr. Yes. That I would have a fair comparison between. So if I had all three providers also providing an Acc, and they were being compared strictly amongst just Acc, there would be a fair comparison. It would be and I think the challenge that they will have in doing straight up in you know, real time and apples to apples is going to be that credit cards will never be using an Acc. They're they're off doing their tel, you know, program with the with the sc box and they're gonna continue to use Apr. A lot of small businesses is rely on that. So they're gonna have an app orange and an apple, maybe a couple apples maybe a pair not. Just apples and oranges. I love to try to talk. You're gonna try to figure it out. So I don't think there's an ever be kind of a true you know So if I if Madam chair, if I may, and I don't wanna take up too much time and I know I have other members here that may have concerns with questions. If I made to the author, ask a question of what was the motivation to depart from an Apr and come up with this new un Acc. Thank you for the question. Although I wouldn't agree with the un tested part. But Originally in my bill, I did have Apr and opponents came in and said, we don't want you to have Apr because Apr changes with every payment you make. It changes the number. And they said it creates legal vulnerability for us to to use Apr and I said, okay, The purpose here is not to curtail small business lending. We need that capital out there. The only issue I want is disclosure, and I don't want to create legal liability. So I said okay, because Apr changes with every payment Let's come up with another metric that's not in a new metric but a metric in the world of business that says, let's take a snapshot in time of what that would cost over the course of a year. And that's why annual cost of capital Acc. It's not based on whether you make more payments this month or less payments next month. It's one snapshot thereby providing a fair estimate without legal vulnerability and a very simple standard. And that's where Acc has come from. So how you said without legal vulnerable vulnerability? Because I know that's been one of the concerns of Acc is that you could throw a figure out there and it actually not be the exact figure and it creates liability on the lender part. What what have you done to be able to mitigate that in the bill, it says an estimate, it says an estimated annual cost of capital. So that's the required disclosure and that is something that I think provides appropriate legal protection for any lender who's providing that capital and that proposal to. So within their disclosure, you're saying if you put estimate on there, then that would help mitigate. I certainly haven't heard any criticism since on those terms. In regard to Acc. Right. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions or thoughts?? Thank you, Madam sure. I just you want to say that, as a republican one thing that there's always a concern is government over beach. This bill doesn't do that. You my opinion, this is a bill one which is helpful for the lender itself consumer. And this information that is helpful in which we'll prevent them from making decisions that be financial address. For them in the future. So I appreciate bringing this bill forward. So with that said, I'd be happy to move the bill. We have So I was just curious for the opponents of the bill. If you're a post Acc in your post Apr. Is there metric that you would recommend and suggest. But I we all of the members of Io do disclose like Apr now. So we're not opposed to Apr. I think there were people in in the let them speak. Yeah. Thank you. The total cost total dollar cost of financing which is not a percentage but tells the small business owner. This is how much the money will cost. That is the best metric. And particular because the goal is to provide a measurement that works across different products. So that measurement works. Whether it's a loan or a sale. And is that something that's already required to be disclosed? No. It's... I mean, not not by by law. It is required to be disclosed by contracts so that the customer understands what they're, you know, what kind of funny they're getting. And the members of the group I represent do provide disclosures like that. I would say that when we developed this Smart, but, you know, and did a survey of small businesses is part of that. Total cost of capital was something dollars and dollars out at the end of the day, that is what is most meaningful to them. I'm not suggesting, you know, annual lives metric or whatever. The problem with analyze metrics generally, is that the shorter the term of the loan, they just look a lot. It it starts to fall apart under a year. But I but to the point that that you made the tele capital is something that business owners say is the metric. It's why it's at the top of our smart box. A cell member weber? Just wanted to get some clarity. Now this smart box that you have. How long have you had the smart box? I mean, is this something that small businesses have access to in half for years or something new. We launched it in June of two thousand sixteen, so it's been around for two years. Okay. And but it's not required. Is not. It's a voluntary industry. Model. Anybody who joins the Il wpa must disclose it as part of that membership. So you have some of the larger lenders like On deck and cabbage using it. But it is not mandatory. It's not made by any government. I okay. Okay. So therefore it's kind of an an uneven thing in terms of who has access to it and whether not people know what the real cost of their loans are. Yes. There's not... There's no mandate to make these disclosures. That's. Okay. And the industry initially was opposed to Apr. And I assume still are. I would imagine. Because there been some revelation and on that. The company's financing companies that don't offer loans but offer a type of factoring program. Know they are opposed to any type of annual analyze metric because those types of transactions don't have a term. The business only pays a percentage of its revenue as that revenue is created. So the transaction will take as long as it takes as long as it takes the business to generate the revenue that they will then deliver to the company. Okay. And I assume that any new system that you come up with will be un tested. I mean, that's the nature of something new. If it was not, it would be old rather than being something new. So I'm not necessarily persuaded by the un element of I think that needs to be some transparency. I was surprised that there wasn't that much transparency in terms of commercial loans. I just assume everybody had. Transparency and knew what the a loan cost and so I found it rather incredible that that it didn't happen. I'm not sure I'm convinced that Acc is the best thing but I haven't heard anybody tell anything else. I know people don't like Apr very much but I not heard that Acc is so horrible. I'm probably gonna support this as it goes forward with hopes that whatever problem there is, you guys will work it out before it gets to the floor. I'm not sure about vote for it on the floor, but I'm I do wanna give life to this. So they can the conversation can continue. Because I think it is very important, especially for small businesses. So our second the motion that was made Thank you, Weber. And I think we have a member of acosta and then a sign member Gabriel. Thank you very much. I kind of appreciate this course today. I appreciate senator Gl coming by And having some significant conversations around this. It is a issue when you're talking about introducing a new metric by which consumers which I know we're calling them business owners, but there's still people on these still have credit cards and auto loans and mortgages, and all these things are calculated somewhat differently. So I think there is an opportunity here for more disclosure. I I share my colleagues San Diego sympathies that this may not be the best answer because these things are all calculated differently. Whether it's true, a traditional factoring whether it's future receivables. My concern has been that a as a consumer and a small business owner because they're still individuals are still people that you're on one side of the fence and you're getting a credit card off or a small business loan offer from one entity on your credit card. It popped up on my screen from one of my bank statements the other day. And then over on this side, we're doing something entirely different and I'm concerned that there will be confusion there. I think you have made attempts to to try to address this. I think that we need good disclosure in this realm. Can you tell me the just for the record of the sunset date on this, we have a sunset of what for years four years. So I'm not thrilled with no disclosure not sure this is one hundred percent the way to go. But I think that given the fact that Apr doesn't work, Acc may not work, we got to try something you've seemed to be very interested in making something work. So I really encourage you to work with the opposition to try to fix things to their liking and really try to find something that that small business owners can sink their teeth into. Maybe you're gonna invent something new here that's gonna carry throughout the rest of the country. I don't know. I'm not a hundred percent comfortable with the discrepancies that small business and owners are gonna be finding themselves, but it's a step. And so I'm going to be I'm gonna be taking a look at this. I'm I may lay off at this moment, but I'm leaning towards supporting your bill at today just so we can continue to work on this, but I'm reserving judgment on the floor for what the final product is. Thank you. Thank you. I I remember Gabriel. And then as some Gloria. Yeah. I just wanted to associate myself the comics of my colleagues from San diego. I appreciate senator glacier your effort to do this and bring transparency to the space. I think that's a a very worthwhile objective. I'm inclined to support you today to continue the conversation but gonna a reserve judgment on the floor just to help myself understand this a little bit better. But very much appreciate what to do here and thank you for bringing this forward. Thank you. Thank you Chair. And Senator, thank you for the bill today. I'm reading it furiously after being substituted in just a a few hours ago. It's why they pay the medium sized. Right? I know usually you bring up a common sense approach to your lady. I was struggling with the conversation in terms of different metrics. I think I heard that part of it. Forgive me if I missed the portion when you address one of the other things that my quick read of this was somewhat troubling to me is the fourth page of the committee analysis talking about the ability to lack thereof have to provide oversight or enforcement on this. It would seem to me then if we're looking out for small businesses, we'd have to have some way of trying to actually enforce what you're trying to do with bill and the... It's... I would... It's difficult for me to vote for something that says that what it says here in terms of having it's either silent or or it's impossible to whole folks accountable. So on so forth, Can you speak to that and why the bills in its current state with these comments? Absolutely. Thank you. A assembly member. There are some that would like to regulate. And the thing that we in our conversations about it that we'd rather start with the step of disclosure and not licensing and not regulation and the hope would be that the marketplace can act appropriately disclose appropriately and that can be the end of it. But under current law, if you have a contract is you have the same remedies under this bill as proposed as you would in any other circumstance that you have today. And our public law enforcement officers have that same ability if they see violations to engage is appropriate. So the same remedies that exist today are in place with the exception of regulation. And it was my view that because you get folks on all sides on these kinds of things. And it is a it's a new engagement because it is the wild west today. There is no requirement we heard from witnesses say she does this. And they do that. There is no requirements anywhere in this space in California across the country. And so it was that context that I said that my feeling was and we took a lot of amendments to narrow this bill and I can go through those. The first step should be a simple disclosure mechanism with a sunset and we can evaluate it as it goes. I don't wanna curtail the lending market whatsoever. But if we have bad actors that continue to not follow those rules then I'm very open trying to see what else is required. And that's why we've taken the small step today that you see in front of you. So your this is not a matter of this will be addressed in a future committee or before it comes to the floor. It is the intent to leave it sort of open at least at this point. Again, given the various players in this in this space that the smaller step to me will seem to be the more appropriate step. No. It is not my intention to put a new regulatory framework under this bill. I think that makes it more difficult. And listen if we didn't have the opposition Apr from the start, we might be in a different place today. But I've tried to accommodate opposition and that's why you have in narrow of this bill before you. Okay. Thank you. As remember call not. And obviously, I don't know what the opposition was to Apr. All of this is new to me. I'm fairly new to this committee, but I am concerned with kind of... I don't wanna say un, but, you know, my father has had small businesses and has made determinations whether he put something on a credit card versus takes out some sort of loan what is the Acc always going to be smaller than the Apr? I I really know nothing about these things. So it depends on the duration. It's it's meant to say over twelve months. And that would there's a lot of loans. And this is part of the problem in that space is I say, you need a thousand dollars for a pizza oven repair. Right. And and I I say you listen, I'll give you a thousand dollars. It'll will cost you two hundred dollars. And this is what the opposition said, the small business people wanna know what that total cost. Well, it's twelve hundred dollars to get a thousand dollars now and you have to pay it back when. Well, if you have to pay it back in ninety days, that interest rate that you're paying is going be a lot higher than you can pay it back in a year. Or if you paid it back based on taking a penny out of every credit card transaction. I mean, so when these lenders in, they can offer you this wide array of ways in which it's not going to cost you anything to your dad. And that's been the challenge. The issue of the annual cost of capital is to say whether you take that loan for ninety days or for two years. You have an annual cost as if it was for twelve months. And more importantly than knowing how much it's gonna cost you you can shop the next vendor in the next finance year and have an apples to apples to compare it to because one vendor may say pay me pay me in six months. Another one will say well, eighteen months. Well, what's the difference? And so that annual cost is a way to have that one standard review and we I did do a chart here. To give you a sense of these are the standards required by the bill. And at the bottom of it, it says what's the annual cost of capital? You have a way of reviewing that. This this chart is based on one hundred and fifty thousand dollars one time over the period of time. And so each of these steps disclosed and then this is the last one. That the bill that's being debated today. What's that annual cost if you paid it over twelve months? This is a fifteen month example, but this is what it would be over twelve and you can prepare it from person to person. Or lender to lender. As long as the product you're getting is all from... Like I I think what I'm... Struggling with is you're making an assumption that they're looking just at this one product, right? This online product and you're not thinking, through like, well, I have space on this credit card. I have the ability... You know, and if we're not using them the same percentage, then it's biased to this because you're gonna get a lower percentage. That's what I'm concerned. Does that make sense? Yes. So now... I feel really ignorant in the space. I to tell don't. Know. And listen welcome to the world of small business lending. Okay? Right. Well even us have have struggled with it. So this is an example based on a hundred and thousand one time loan paid off over is it three about three years. Okay? Now here's another example of the one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, but now it's paid off. Let's see here. A little over year. Right? A little over a year and it comes from money money out of your see, it says... Let's see Okay. This is the fifteen month alone one time. This is this is money out of your cash register or over a much longer period of time. And you can see how these charts then work out. Under this one, it's a they're both one hundred and fifty thousand dollars This is the total cost of all your payments. This is one seventy. That's one seventy nine. Here's your financing cost. Under this example, twenty thousand. On this example, it's twenty nine thousand. Here's how much you paid every day. If what's most sensitive to your dad was how much he had to put out every day. This one is three hundred seventy dollars. That one is a hundred and sixty three dollars. And so you work down this chart and then you say, well, what if I had to pay this over one year the apples and apples? This is a ten percent cost and that one's a six percent cost. But you can get a sense of the complexity of these just two different examples of flat loan versus something that you're gonna pay off every day I have your cash register. And this is the dilemma that they all face. How do you create the apples the apples with these different products. And this shows you that you can have different products with different loan amounts in different durations. But the one thing that you can compare the apples to is the annual cost of capital in both both charts. They're never going to give you an Apr in an Acc. But they're gonna just show you the whatever the law requires is what they're gonna provide. And this is a way for you to cross comparison shop that doesn't exist today. Okay. So I'm sorry. So I get how you can compare these two... And I I applaud what you're trying to do. I think this is good. My concern is, how do you compare this to my business credit card or something that's giving me just an. That's that's a consumer loan, and it's it's that is But small businesses use credit and a variety of way... I mean, I guess you can take loan. But I mean, especially small businesses use a variety. I'm just worried about that, like, are we... This makes it very good for what we're... What you are trying to do, but that's not the only way people yeah. I I borrow money to... Right. And they challenges that the credit card Apr, it's based on how much you pay and when. In other words that's just an estimate, but it's a changing estimate every month if you decide to only pay so much into principal, that's going to change that number. And so that's the dilemma of even looking at that financial instrument of well I put this on my credit card versus take out a business loan. It's a very challenging thing for anyone to understand because... And that's why I go back to the simplicity is the annual cost, not an Apr that that fluctuates. And obviously some in the industry say we love it and some say they hate it. And wanted it changed in the bill. And that will always remain that dilemma but I be beware with fire be beware lender be beware. We're just trying to give that small business owner one additional tool. And that's not how much is the money gonna cost me or how much do I pay every day what would this cost if I had it for twelve months? Why wouldn't you have both? What we do. The bill does require that that all these elements be provided. No, A m. Why wouldn't you have both? Well, first, we had the concern up on Apr about the legal. Jeopardy of that number fluctuating and how can you have it be a fair estimate? How did they do it on credit cards? So I get a credit card... Or I'm applying for a credit card and it tells me this is the Apr. And that's about a stack of federal regulation this high that went into that high plus more that gone into the whole determination of Apr. And when you say it's you know, it's been around a long time. It's been highly debated on the federal level. And so you have this body of of information that's now there that guides companies and they how they do it and how they calculated it. So these companies could do that. They could do that today. Most of them don't. I'm happy to hear one that does provide it, but if again, it's the wild west. So... So I wouldn't we want both. I'm just... I'm still besides I have... There's a function to do it and then it could better cross compare between different products why... I'm into more disclosure not less. Yes. So why I I... And I... I'm not, like, setting you. I don't... I have no idea. I'm I'm totally confused on trying to do the right thing in this bill. So Yeah. Well, look at I'm open minded. That for me, the issue the fundamental issue is how do we provide appropriate level disclosure to give that small business person a fighting chance? In the lending market. I hadn't thought about whether providing both and whether that would be helpful or less helpful. I'm open minded to it. It was really true... I'm I've been trying to simplify this. Because there's been a lot of efforts to complicated it. And so I hadn't gone in that direction, but I'm still open minded about whether that would be more helpful or less. Well, I would say for a lot of small businesses, and I think about small this is my community where you have a lot of non English speakers, a lot not native speakers being able to actually look at two different completely different products, one that maybe not supposed to be used for small business loans, but as a credit card versus this that to line up the letters, regardless of how you get to that number and what it means and but line up the letters and try to get to some comparison would be helpful rather than assuming a level of knowledge I think that even if it was in their home language, probably... I mean, it's beyond me and concern myself slightly educated, but definitely with folks who who are new to this country and who are trying to figure this all out. I... I'm I'm a little concerned. That's all. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. As members I. First, I just like to say I think this is very clever. I've been in business for over twenty years, and my business is helping local and small business grow. I've been doing that successfully. I've probably helped over ten thousand businesses be successful and the single greatest reason for their failure is under capitalization. Period. That's it. And so short term versus longer term access to capital, I believe that your way of really trying to add the transparency to the short term access to capital. So people have a clear understanding of what it's going to cost their business. It's going be very useful for their success. So I'll be voting on this thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Senator you and I have had multiple conversations about this. And I think the analysis does express some concern with the ability to enforce particularly because enforcement is also a way to ensure that your objective is met. It's not just an enforcement mechanism, but it's also about the objective. But we've also had conversations about the direction of the bill. And knowing how important it is for any, you know, consumer to have the information they need to make the best decisions. What I'm hearing is that at this point, Apr, you're lucky if you have it. Some do some don't. It's not a standardization. And so as I listen to colleagues bring concerns forward about how do you compare all of your options, not just your online lending, but all of your options I also understand that currently that can exist. Because if they... Right now today if they were to try to go to an online loan or a cash advance, and also compare credit cards. They don't have the mechanism to to look at it apples to apples. I appreciate that this is a at least for the moment, a temporary solution. It has a four year sunset so that we can understand. I still continue to have concerns about how the objective is going to be met how we know that whether it's Acc or something else is going to be met and how we're ensuring that over the next four years, potentially all the consumers are customers of this product see the same thing. I'm not sure. But there are certain themes that you have brought forward. Things that I have been very sensitive to this year in the world of banking and finance. And those include the importance for transparency for disclosure. And for people to understand the true cost of a alone. I understand how hard it is for these things. Are these elements to be in place with a lot of products. And for those reasons, I am going to give you an vote in good faith that we can try to get there, but I will note that there are still some concerns and I'm happy to be part of any kind of conversation to reach to make sure that the objective you're trying to get to is one that is able to be met. And I know how hard this work is. And with that, if there are no other comments, I think we will have you close and then we'll take about thank you ben your members for this thoughtful thorough conversation that we've had today. I appreciate it. I wanna underscore again how hard we have worked my staff, the your staff and others to try to narrow the differences take out leasing take out some of the receivables issues that we can't really fit into this block so that we could provide something that's simple and easy and understandable and transparent. I think we've gone a long ways here. I know there's more work still to be done and I'm happy to... I look forward to that work that we can do together. We do need to protect our small business people. And it is a wild west of financing out there. And I think this bill does get us closer to that space and I appreciate your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the all. Hi? Hi. Limo I chen? Chen I caster. Costa I? Burke, Gloria, Gabriel. Gabriel eye, Gonzales Fletcher? Gonzales Fletcher not voting, Grayson? Grayson I. Stein north? Stein I Stone? Weber. Weber eye. 