My name is Andrew Big lowe and organizers silicon called Valley debug and we support this bill. Andrew Wynn, project to Rebound Sacramento State, Susan Coalition and and strongly support this bill. Eugene Day, and entire coalition, and I strongly support this bill. Susan Will volunteer with Pact, I strongly support this bill. Thank you. She would sounds like California with pact strongly support this building. San Jose with packed because state white and I strongly support this bill. Alice Lynch packed, San Jose, I strongly support this bill. My name is Leg and I support this bill. Thank you. The actress love our blood campaign, I support this bill. Colby Lands with the California Coalition for Women prisoners and survived and punished to strongly support this bill. Will you just in chunks part of this vote Thanks. On a billings private citizen, San francisco gone strong support of the bill. Mana with communities, United Forest started justice and strong support. Normally. Not from San, California night strongly to support this bill. Steve Rogers, dignity Empower now and I support this bill. S Bin dairy with the Youth Justice Coalition, and I'm strong support of this bill. Hello. My name is Kayla Mc mcgraw and I support this bill. My name is Ramon Representing Ga from South San Clara County, and I strongly support this bill. Okay. Are any other witnesses in support? Five. Witnesses an opposition Does support one Okay. Witnesses opposition. One more, one more support name and organization. Ct Weber, Peace party, California legislative committee chair in support. Thank you. Hi Morning. Good morning. Good morning. Mister is Chair remember Sean Hoffman. With the California district attorney's Association in respectful opposition to Fourteen thirty seven, Cda is opened to the idea of revisiting the application of the felony Murder rule to end we've supported something member Cooper's bill earlier this year. We've also had very I would characterize them as very positive discussions with the author and the sponsors over the last several months. However, as currently drafted Sb fourteen thirty seven, we believe is flawed in two very significant ways. First, the bill eliminates any additional liability that acknowledges that somebody lost their life in the commission of the underlying felony. These are crimes that have victims who deserve some measure of fidelity at sentencing. And so to to someone to simply the sentence for the underlying felony, we believe does not appropriately acknowledge the level of criminal activity that occurred in that incident. Second, and this gets a little more technical on the sentencing aspect of it. But the bill is fully retroactive and applied is currently two convictions obtained by plea, placing a burden on the prosecution to prove eligibility for relief beyond a reasonable doubt. In certain cases, this will be impossible. When there's a plea, there are certain things that we don't do the investigation at that point for for all intents and purposes, it stops. And so if we're now in effect asking us to go back and retry the case on the issue of eligibility. Years or decades later, perhaps without the benefit of witnesses and without even a complete investigative file and having to prove in eligibility beyond a reasonable doubt. That's a burden that we will be unable to meet which will result in people who may not be the intended target of this relief, having that relief extended to them, which we believe makes the community on unsafe we look forward to continuing our conversations with the sponsors and with the author. And hopefully, we can get you a place where you know everybody's is comfortable, but as the bill drafted today, we are in strong opposition. Okay. Thank you, mr Chair members Dawn Ka Key with mc q Ka Associates on behalf of K Victims United California, we would echo the comments of the Da regarding the concerns and just from a victim's perspective, which is note concerns relative to those situations where a victim would have thought that the case had been resolved that Justice for the victim had been served, but would ultimately be pulled back into a situation where they're having to relive the crime questions and concerns just about process of about victim involvement and engagement and how that would play out in terms of those rates afforded to victims under Marcy law on state laws. So with that, we do look forward to continuing to work with the author. We've been in touch with her sponsors about some potential discussions and amendments and certainly appreciate the dialogue thus far and look forward to the continued conversation hopefully removing our opposition at some point. Thank you. Thank you. Any other witnesses in opposition? Yes. John level on behalf of the association of Deputy District attorneys, the California College and University, Police Chief Association, the California narcotics Officers Association the association for Los Angeles deputy sheriff, the Los Angeles Police protective League and the Los Angeles County Professional Peace Officers Associated association and we'd really like to echo the comments of the briar witnesses. Our opposition is rooted in the bill as currently crafted. But we look forward to the continuing discussion among the parties as the previous witnesses have said, we are not opposed, per s to reform of the felony murder rule, but we do have issues with the way the bill is currently crafted. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Yes. Corey I a on behalf of the California State Sheriff's Association for the reasons stated in opposition. Thank Tel, deputy district attorney on behalf of the Los Angeles County district attorney's office in strong opposition to the form of the bell. Thank you. Thank you. Members Jonathan Feldman, California Police Chief Association in opposition. Ryan sherman with the riverside Sheriff Association and opposition. Thank you. And now turn it over to committee members. Any question move second. So Oh, okay. So I just wanted to know if the gentleman here made some offered some very legitimate concerns if you would care to respond, I think one of the things he said was to sentence on the underlying felony. Doesn't really acknowledge the other victim. So maybe there's a way to kind of respond to that. Thank you. I will do so appreciate the question, but I wanna preface it with the fact that what I will describe the amendments we have taken to address those concerns, but I want to preface it with that while regardless of how we amend this bill the fact remains that there are people who had the same role in the commission of a felony where a death occurred who were not sentenced in under felony murder. And then they're a great deal who are. So we have already an extremely une circumstance where the lie law was not applied. To all. So in other words, everyone who if we if we had our witness at the table who describes his son circumstance, we could have a similar person who did not get charged that way as his son did. And we have there's great data to that effect. So, of course, in what unfortunately occurs so often, in our justice system as your ina of representation because either due to poverty or other reasons, and then you might do a plea bargain in a circumstance where another person with better representation did not, and yet your role in the particular crime was equal. So I just wanted to first put that in the record. Now we have been meaning from the day I introduced even prior to the introduction of this bill with the Das and with other law enforcement in order to try to get to a point where we have a reform to California's felony murder rule that works for everyone. And we have taken a number of amendments that on the suggestion of the Das, including we clarified that certain people who would be considered the mastermind behind a crime. So just as again clarification if already under the way the laws that bill is written. If you plan the murder if you paid someone for that murder if the variety of other very specific roles in it that aren't just the actual murderer you would not benefit from this change, but we also clarified that people who would be considered the mastermind mastermind would not be covered by this bill and could still be held accountable under the felony Murder rule. We also clarified that people who aid in a bet are not covered in this bill and they are ineligible for res sentencing. And finally, we flipped the burden of proof So the prosecution no longer has to prove in the resent process, but rather the petition must prove that they are eligible for relief. And that specifically addressed concerns of the Das Association because the original bill placed the burden on the Da to show that the petition was ineligible beyond reasonable doubt. So we are still in conversation to see what might additionally address concerns, but I think the Da rep would describe that we have been in constant communication and have taken and a number of amendments to date. And for the record, you... It's not giving Folks a free pass. You still not yes. For sentencing. Right? Correct. Correct. Proved. Yes. And you still maintain a strike, correct on your wrist. Yes. So it's not we're being intentional with I wanna talk about being tough on prime or soft on crime. You could say this is about being intentional. Right. This is this is a aligning the charge and the sentence with your role in the crime. So you as you have accurately pointed out assembly member, you would still be a they would your underlying crime would still be a strike under the three strikes law, but you would not be if you met the conditions outlined in the bill, you would just have the ability to be reset for your role in that crime. Thank you. Okay. Thank you Any mister Kylie? A question for the opposition what do you believe is the deter value of the felony murder rule? Either it's current version or whatever reform version you'd be comfortable with. We think the value of what is the value of having any felony murder rule on the books? Like the deter value is that people are from participating in serious dangerous felon because if someone dies in the commission of that felony as the law is today, anybody involved in that could con con first to degree murder charge. Any other questions court. This is a bill. That's a long time coming and it's very fair. We actually have cases where the shooter is out on the street because he was willing to give evidence whereas the person in the car who had no idea that the murder was being committed is still in jail. I'm going to vote for this bill which restores fairness to our system. Thank you. You. Miss cam that it people will think twice. And I was just wondering if anyone at the at the table can share... You know, if you've heard of criminals who have said, you know, I was gonna do this but then I thought This is gonna be a six eighty seven or oh, this is gonna be a one eighty seven. I mean, have... I because, you know, I've said this before my husband is a defense attorney and it seems very unlikely and rare that in hearing stories, people are actually thinking about the pen code that could be applied to them if they're doing an act. So... But maybe I don't have accurate information. Can you share if that happens regularly? Well, I can give you one firsthand example. Some of you may know this, but Two members of our family were murdered and what is still today the worst mass murder in the history of the city of Los Angeles. Little barr on Normandy Southeast lawson was Fire bombed. The guy who drove the Getaway car, Manuel Hernandez at the trial and his defense lawyer argued reviewed at the trial that gee, all he did was buy the bucket of gasoline that was thrown into the bar to burn six people to death, but he didn't know that that was the intent that they would they were just trying to scare people and had he known he would have been liable. He wouldn't have been involved in this at all. He made that same argument when he was ultimately parole. And that was a constant refrain from him. Notwithstanding the fact that six people, including Gilbert Gonzalez and Jose in our family were murdered. Just to clarify, this bill would not have would not allow res sentencing for that individual because it does not give any relief to those who aided and embedded the killing which occurred in this case. So it's not the appropriate. I'm sure there are examples that could be provided that would make us some of us uncomfortable, but that one does not fit for this particular bill. I would like to also speak to the deter if I may chair. Regarding the deter issue, research indicates that Fewer than half a percent of individuals incarcerated for first or second degree murder, were even aware that the felony murder rule as applied existed before they committed their crimes. So if one is not aware of such a rule, and its extreme consequences, then how can it serve as a deter? And I think if we were to do a survey of those members the legislature who are not lawyers. Most of them would not even occur that because we have on this on the books things like accessory, various other statute. I think most of us assume that if you you know had this more peripheral role in a murder that you would be charged with that that you would not be charged with felony murder. And for example, I am not a lawyer. And until I started was brought to my attention as Chair Public Safety, the existence of the way California's murder statute is applied, I was not even aware that the number of people that we have serving life sentences in California dirt due to this rule. Ask a follow question. I too wanted to say that I think this is a good bill and as we recalibrate a wide and inconsistent net that we have cast as it relates to law enforcement and criminal justice reform. This is a solid step. Yes. Did you Just want thank the author for bringing this to our attention in much needed conversation. And I also just want to thank all the witnesses that came forward. I know that it is not easy to come to this building it is a little intimidating and there's never enough time to hear for many, but from everybody, especially the personal stories that are so deep and entrenched in family history and clearly in the history of the state, and so I just want to say thank you for coming to this building for sharing what you can share. And know that there are many of us they wanna to move our state forward. Thank you. And you may close. Thank you. I think we've had a good discussion in just to clarify fourteen thirty seven does not abolish the felony murder rule. It retains the liability of felony murder for anyone who committed the murder, planned aided the killing, acted with reckless during the crime, mastermind the crime and a whole host of other conditions. But what it does do is narrow the application so that it more reflects the person's role in the crime. And as I indicated in response or in our discussion. I have taken a number of amendments that we worked out with the Das. I will continue to continue these conversations with law enforcement in Das because it is my hope that this bill could be in a final place where they could be at least neutral. Again, these things aren't nothing is ever guaranteed in life, but that is, I think that the association would testify to are good conversations in my intent to try to meet those needs. But with that, I respectfully asked for your I vote. Okay Thank you. And the church recommending really because you know when I what I'm hearing from the opposition that you've had respect full honest open discussions on this matter. You've taking some amendments and you will continue to discuss So do we ensure that we don't let people out who really are c liable and guilty. And we're not giving them a free pass. And so with that, I'm recommending that to the committee do an I vote S fourteen thirty seven, the motion is due past Appropriation committee john Sawyer, lack, Da. I, kylie Kylie no quirk. Cork I, santiago. At measure passes. Thank you. And your last item fourteen, twenty one. Thank you. Chair committee members. Fourteen twenty one. California is relatively unique among states in that we have basically neither the public nor even sometimes hiring agencies have access to records around our law enforcement officers. And when I say we're are relatively unique, there's a number of circumstances their statute that we put into effect, But also there Was a court case that in interpret our statute in a certain way or at least said until the legislature clarifies those statute that basically there would be a freeze on the public access to any records related to law enforcement conduct. Now what fourteen twenty one does is does not open up all records related to law enforcement in the equivalent way that we have our public record act towards other public employees rather it's and narrow, it narrowly addresses only giving access to those records related invest investigation records related to law enforcement, use of deadly force on the job sexual assault or on the job related dishonest. Now I am taking amendments author amendments will fix ledge counsel errors but also address language to tighten knit regarding beyond the job related dishonest and from the committee We are inappropriately appropriation gonna clarify that the records on frivolous allegations of use of force would not be closed. There's additional information I provide you on the specifics of the bill, but I want allow my witnesses and support to speak first. Thank you mr Chair. Nikki Moore with the California News Publishers Association interactions between police and the public are some of the most critical and can mean a loss of life or liberty. There are so many people here today who want to tell their stories about these incidents and there are journalists across California who want to tell the stories that affect their communities. But we can't. These stories have gaping holes because California has for too long kept information about these secret. The Supreme Court has said people in an open society do not demand from their institutions, but it is difficult for them to accept what they are prohibited from observing, saying Trust us does not create public trust. Instead of proactively disclosing information about the most critical incidents, California law shroud this information and secrecy and forces mothers and fathers to become journalists to fight uncover scraps of information to know what happened. And when California journalists try to find the same information they are s. California is among the most seek of states regarding police records. It has only worsened in the last twelve years since the cop decision shut down what little access we did have to information. Time has come to change and courts have said it is only this legislature power to do so. The systemic secrecy hurts every interest even those opposed to this bill. We would better understand complaints about the arbitration system if there was transparency about officer discipline, We could get rid of bad actors by ensuring that they are not shuffled to a new department that doesn't know their history. And when police act properly in using force, we could know that too. The shroud of secrecy serves no one. We've worked very hard on this bill to make sure that it is balanced that it protects all of the due process interests. And that it protects privacy that it protects officer safety. There's flexibility built into the deadlines for disclosure, but it's some point this information must be disclosed to the public. We are working with shareholder holders on their additional concerns and we are... We will continue to work with them through the process and we'd like to think senator scanner for champion this very important measure. We sexually Ar vote. Thank you. Thanks. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Lat Del rosa. I'm here to ask you to vote yes from the Sb one four two one, which will public law enforcement records when they are involved in use, of course, sexual of misconduct misconduct on the job. When my son james born he was very confident he played based off or his high school team until graduated from putting him high. After after high school, he He got into the oil refineries. He also loved his family community. He was a peace and our and our family and his school. He was the favorite of the nieces and the Nephews and the little cousins despite his young age, he was approved by the county system pastor childcare care to work as a caregiver. On the day he was killed. He left the house about eight thirty to join his friends two miles from from our home, he was pulled... He pulled into a gas station and he scratched when he pulled in. This gave the reason for the Bp from Bakersfield show to approach him as a police drove behind him he panicked, he jumped to his car, drove away, You make the why would he leave, but young men of color and county living in the county and the highest rate of use of force homicide and the nation are afraid of the officers. Ja never booked along. He was never arrested never been arrested was what's when he was a little boy, he would say I'm be a caught mom when I grow up. As a child, he had confidence in the police. And as he got older. He lost that confidence in the police The baxter police department chased him for two miles. And another police joined the chase. He lost control of his car and hit a poll. And witness says that James got off. With his hands up. And and he was right headed from the airbags hitting him in the face. When he when he got up the car, he left his hands and he let one hand go down to pull his pants up. Officer with Rick W try to ta him. Hearing the taser, the other police officers Edgar, Ag aguilera, Valerie And frank Mc, said they thought it was a gun gunfire, but it wasn't it was the taser that went on. James was shot twice and his hip once and he's growing and the fatal shot was to his head. He was taken to the hospital where he was pronounced dead, we we never contact makes the police never contacted us to let us know that James was killed even to them knowing his address through his driver's license and the plates on the vehicle. Later, the investigators came by, which never spoke to me they never spoke to me. And during the time the james was in the hospital, his body was considered evidence because he was in a crying. They had an officer string and officer Lacey watching his body. And officer string out that play with my son's body was okay. He moved my son's head back and forth he was popping my sons toes and his fingers. And he tells officer Lacey, I like playing with dead bodies. So not only was my son murder, but he was a very disrespect very disrespect by these officers. When we rushed to the hospital because of... Because we went to the crime scene and the cops wouldn't tell me nothing. I told them this is my son's vehicle. Please tell me where my son is. They wouldn't tell me. They told me to leave. And then I asked him again, begging then please tell me where my friend is. They told me to leave. So down the road from where my son was murdered, there county hospital and I knew in my heart that that's where he would be. I get you the hospital, Try to get information. They don't give me any... There's one gentleman had been worked in forty years because I've been to this hospital. And I asked him said, please tell me if my son's in the back, and I gave her my son's name. He said, all I can tell you is there's his hispanic boy back there. That's all he can tell me. The rest of that night, there was no information given to me to regards to my my son or what what's going on. Later on that evening app my son was murdered at nine later on that evening maybe about one in the morning, I'm gonna say, they... The corners came out and asked me to describe something unique on my son. I said, he has a tattoo with my name and and a high flower. He he was sorry to count out me that my son had died. And 