Good morning, Lizzie Beacon, with the ACLU of California. Unfortunately, we are in opposition to AB 3129. We do not oppose gun control measures that protect public welfare and are non discriminatory and fair. Unfortunately, AB 3129 discriminates against people with a misdemeanor on their record by enacting a lifetime ban on anyone with a misdemeanor relating to domestic violence, no matter how much time has passed, no matter what their rehabilitation has been like. This perpetuates the harmful and unfounded stereotype that someone with a criminal conviction is forever dangerous,is inherently dangerous, again regardless of how much time has passed. I want to note that when a police officer has been convicted of domestic violence, they can petition to get their guns back immediately. So under this bill, which does not change that under this bill and a police officer convicted of domestic violence could petition and get their gun back, they don't even have to wait 10 years. But a civilian would have a lifetime ban and this ban is not without consequences. If a person who has ever had a misdemeanor conviction forthese crimes comes into the possession of a gun, they can be arrested, prosecuted, incarcerated for a felony. This will certainly have disproportionate harm on communities of color. According to the Department of Justice in California, nearly a fourth of the arrests or arrests for felony gun offenses were of people who are black. And nearly half were people who are Latino. These populations make up 6.5% and 39% of the population in California respectively. And sowe agreed that we need gun control that protects the public. Unfortunately, there is no evidence that this would do that. There's no evidence that a 10 year ban is not sufficient. This bill stigmatizes and discriminates against people who have ever had a misdemeanor conviction for one of these offences, and will have a disproportionate impact on people of color. And I will note that I recognize the data presented of the low rates of reporting of abuse and violence and agree with that. I agree that that's a big problem. This bill does not address that. Instead it would just have this disproportionate impact on people. So for those reasons, we are opposed. Thank you, are there any other witnesses in opposition? Are there any questions from Committee Members? Miss Kamlager-Dove?Thank you, so I have a question, I know this is a incredibly personal bill, and as a survivor, it's very important that we have uncomfortable conversations like this as it relates to domestic violence. I was wondering if someone could help define for me what possession means for this bill? This bill has nothing to do with possession, it's about being able to buy a gun. Right?No. It's a lifetime ban on owning a gun. Not possessing a gun, it's owning a gun. Well, in myNo, if someone is in possession of a gun 40 years after a misdemeanor conviction for one of these offenses, they can be prosecuted for a felony. Possession would probably mean knowing possession in terms of subsidive criminal law. If somebody sneaks into your office and slips a hand gun into your bag, you're not in possession of it. This is pretty much standard in criminal law. But if you're knowing possession then you're in possession. But if I'm with someone in a car, and the gun is in the car, I don't know that it's in the car. But, if we get stopped because I'm black, because the tail light is out. Because I'm black. And someone starts looking in the car and they find it, the DA may more likely than not intimate that I know that the gun is in the car, because I'm black. Because probably cause, because that's how they want to, well I don't want to make any, I don't want to cast any aspersions. But you see where I'm going with the questioning, how are we defining possession, because it can mean I own it. It can mean I know where it is, but it can also mean I just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time and there's a gun near me. And then all sorts of things begin and to, come together. So is there any sort of specific definition or defined scope of what possession means for this bill?Well, I think, I mean it is a serious issue. You're right, I mean of course we have the same issue when it comes to possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. And so our law enforcement officers and judges ultimately have to deal with that issue in the context of cars and so forth all the time. I confess I'm not up to snuff on the case law, generally under substantive law to be in possession of drugs or in possession of a firearm you have to know that you have possession of it. It has to be knowing possession. So the issue that you raised is a real substantive issue. There's undoubtedly a great deal of established law on it since we have so many prosecutions for possession of a firearm by a felon, and we frequently find guns in cars, so I'm sure it's been litigated before. I wish I had a more definitive answer for you. Yeah, I would say that that scenario is not an unusual one and it is one that comes up often and people are convicted for felon in possession of a firearm for a gun in the trunk. Okay, any other questions? Yes, Mrs. Carillo. Thank you, first I'd like to thank the author for bringing this bill to this Committee. I know that sharing world of experience that have traumatic impacts is not easy. And to all the testimony that came in today that agrees with your bill. I also believe that we need to empower those that have been victims of domestic violence. What I appreciate about this bill is that it actually brings California law into federal standards. And I think that's what we need to consider here as a policy Committee. That we really do need think about where California currently is, where the federal law is and aligning policy in that matter. So thank you again for bringing it to our attention. You may close. Thank you Mr. chair and just so you know, that it is discriminating against domestic violence abusers. I have a personal story, my sister is a victim of domestic violence and her abuser is still harassing her. Not directly because he's under a restraining order, but I'm sure as soon as the restraining order is lifted, there'll be some attempts to harm her. And so for me, it is personal and I am discriminating against domestic violence abusers becausedomestic violence goes unreported. My sister was brave enough to speak and even because she spoke, she's still being harassed. And we can sit here and talk about the rights of the abusers all we want, what about the rights for the victims and the dangers? Statistically, LA County, 84.9% of the violent domestic violence Are caused by firearms had prior domestic violence misdemeanors, I am looking out for the victims. And we also talk about how we are in support of those students that spoke out against owning guns. But in this case we're not Supporting that same concept about restricting gun ownership. I respectfully ask for your aye vote, but for me, this is personal. And I will continue to advocate for victims of domestic violence. And again, I can appreciate the rights for everybody else, but where are the rights for the victims? And to me, that is the most important Domestic violence doesn't see color. Domestic violence doesn't see gender. Domestic violence doesn't see socio-economic conditions. And for that, I am very passionate about this bill, and I will continue advocating for victims of domestic violence, regardless of if it may seem discriminatory domestic violence abusers. With that, I respectfully ask for your aye vote. Right. And I know you're passionate about this and I hopefully discussion had not devolved into being prejudiced towards domestic violence victims. I think that was the intent of the opposition. So someone who's been part of the domestic violence. Who grew up in domestic violence. And for the first time, I'm 61 years old, this is the first time I have ever really mentioned it. I'm 61 years old. It happened in my family when I was seven. And it was because of alcoholism. And until they got treatment and until my father and stepfather Learned what they were doing was rough to I have images in my head that sear in my head every day. Every day that I can't get out. And when people ask me why am I so close to my mother, because we went through that hell together. So this Committee not only will do whatever we can, domestic violence victims,we also want to make sure we ensure that those two black men. My father and stepfather aren't discriminated against either. And that's very important because they did change their life. They did become respectful members of society. They did go to church every day. They did stop doing that. And I think what you're hearing is let's make sure one, we don't discriminate against anyone. We provide an opportunity. Two, for me and I've said this a million times,for me it's about implementation. And so as I spoke to you, it's on the books. The federal law is taking care of it so my question more or less importantly than anything else. If there's some holes in the system where we're not banning people who have committed domestic violence. If their numbers are going up because we don't have it on the books in California, that's my concern of making sure that we can't implement this in a way that will be most effective and have the most impact so that we do make sure thatguns do not get in the hands of individuals who are violent period. I don't care if it's domestic. I don't care if it's a hate crime. I had a bill banning hate crime, misdemeanor hate crime individuals, from owning guns for 10 years. I wanted to make it a lifetime ban. So I get it, I'm with you, I just want to make sure that not only that we implement it, that we just don't make laws. I've been on the other side on implementation, we make laws and then it's either never reallyactuated in a way that would fully help or, it's done incorrectly and it causes more harm than good. An that's where we're at and I need to apologize to the author because I hadn't had enough time, so many bills to sit down with you and figure out a way to make sure than when we implement this we need to make sure that this follows along federal law, that there are no holes and it does work with system that we have for fire arms that we do go after And if we have to retrieve guns from peoplewho are domestic violence abusers that were able to get their, they have guns, I want to have that discussion, how do we get guns out of dangerous people's hands. I mean, that's really, really, really important, and I'm I believe we can do that if we work together to get to that. I'm just not sure if we're there yet. And so, I'm going to lay off today. Hopefully we can continue this conversation. But, I feel your passion. I understand. I'm not voting, because I think we're,we also have to think of this in a systematic, logical way so that whatever this Committee approves, it makes sense. And most important, we can get the job done so we can protect not only your family, but every family in California. And so those statistics that you mention that they go down or they just don't stay the same and we keep piling law on top of law on top of law and we have this mound of paperwork but nothing gets done because the implementation part. We feel good that we did this but the implementation part fall short and that's why I would love for you to bring this back next year but we'll see what happens today. So I'm laying off today. Thank you. AB. AB 3129, the motion is do pass to Appropriations, Jones-Sawyer? Not voting. Jones-Sawyer not voting, Lackey? Aye. Lackey aye, Carrero? Aye. Carrero aye, Kamlager-Dove? Not voting. Kamlager-Dove not voting, Kiley? Aye. Kiley aye, Quirk? Quirk not voting? Quirk not voting, Santiago? That measure's on call. That measure's on call. Thank you. Thank you. Miss Baker. 3064, item number 22. 