Members, again, we're grateful for your patience. Senator Skinner is going to be taking up file item 124, we're then going to lift the call, and then we're going to go back to file item 34 and work the file. Mr. Secretary, can you please read file item 124?Senate Bill 1437 by Senator Skinner, an act relating to murder. Good afternoon, Senator Skinner. Thanks so much, Mr. President. Members, last year we had a resolution before us which talked about this old English common law practice of felony murder rule. Which can be very broadly applied to sweep up anyone who is at or around the committing of a felony that results in a death, they can be swept up and charged with felony murder. And in that resolution, we addressed the different courtcases that have decried the fact that various of our states, including California, have not appropriately defined our murder statute so this broad sweeping does not occur. That resolution had over 30 Senators voting in support. What I bring before you today with SB 1437 is the ability to refine our murder statute so that it can appropriately fit the crime that is committed. And it would align California with states like Arkansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, that have also rewritten their murder statutes to reflect this application. Now SB 1437 does not let murderers off the hook. It retains liability for anyone who actually committed a murder, who aided a killing, who planned a killing, or even acted with recklessness during the crime. What SB 1437 isdesigned to do is to protect individuals like this particular woman who is now serving a life sentence in California's state prison. Her initials are VJ, and I will relay to you the circumstances of her sentence and her charge. VJ was renting to someone a room in the back of her house. That renter had a ongoing argument with their mutual neighbor. The renter repeatedly threatened to harm VJ andher elderly father who lived with her if she would not inform him, or if she did not inform him, when the neighbor returned home. Fearing for her and her father, VJ informed the renter that the neighbor had returned home. As soon as she heard the fighting that then ensued between her renter and the neighbor, she rushed out, went to the aid of the neighbor, even drove the neighbor to the hospital. Unfortunately that neighbor did not survive. VJ did not knowthat the renter intended to commit that action of harm against the neighbor. She did her best to intervene and to save his life, and yet she was charged under the felony murder rule and was sentenced 25 years to life. Now in addition to appropriately fixing our murder statute so that it would not apply in cases such as that, it also establishes, 1437, a process for re-sentencing. And I've taken amendments from our California Das Association on a number of points, especially on the re-sentencing portion, to address their concerns. And with that, I ask for your aye vote on SB 1437. Thank you, Senator Skinner. Do we have any discussion or debate? Senator Stone, then we're going to turn it over to Senator Wiener and then Senator Anderson. Senator Stone. Thank you, Mr. President. And I know that the California District Attorneys Association is still in opposition, I'm not sure if they still are within the amendments. I hope that the author will raise that issue in her closing statement. But based on what I do know, I'm rising in opposition SB 1437. While I certainly understand the author's intent, I feel this bill goes a bit too far andraises some serious questions. Because the bill can be applied retroactively, there will be a number of unintended consequences. What if a murder conviction comes not from a jury but as a result of a plea bargain? As the California District Attorneys rightfully point out, under the provisions of this measure a re-sentencing hearing will be necessarily required with a full court record, including transcripts and exhibits, to determine the exact level of participation in the crime in order to determine whether a particular defendant is in fact entitled to relief. In cases that are resolved through a negotiated plea, no such record exist. And virtually all participants in murder may qualify for relief to which they may not be entitled. Additionally, this bill requires the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the criminal falls into one of the categories that precludes re-sentencing. Once again, in cases that are resolved through a negotiated plea deal, the absence of a full court record will necessarily prevent the peoplefrom establishing beyond a reasonable doubt whether a petitioner is excluded. This could mean that just about any criminal who petitions, even those who were major participants in a crime which resulted in death, could be entitled to re-sentencing and the elimination of their sentence. Members, this bill goes way too far, and I think sets a very dangerous President. For those reasons, I would urge you to vote no on SB 1437. Thank you, Senator Stone. Senator Wiener. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I rise in strong support of SB 1437. This bill is long overdue. The felony murder rule is dramatically too broad and it is sweeping up people who may have committed a crime but they should not be guilty of murder. It's ruining people's lives rather than rehabilitating them, and we should definitely pass this bill. And I want to thank the Senator from Berkeley for bringing it forward. Thank you. Senator Anderson, then we're going to go to Senator Nielson. Senator Anderson. Senators, look, we've all heard or read the case where somebody goes with buddies to a 7-11, and somebody runs in to get Slurpees for everybody in the car. And then there's a gunshot and someone dies. And they're all charged with pulling the trigger. But the driver and the friends in the car had no idea The crime was going to occur. But if they're addressed under this law and we know that to be wrong. It's not fair. Even if they knew and they thought that they were going to be shoplifting, but never understood that a weapon was going to be taken in and used or discharged taking someone's life. But they're charged as if they had pulled the trigger. On the flip side we've also read and Learned that some people plot in cold blood that they're going to go to 7-Eleven, they'RE going to kill the witnesses and they're going to steal. And they should be charged, butthey're all lumped together. This bill sets out to separate the two, to give real justice to those who weren't active participants in the murder of another. Now, having said that, I'm supporting the bill, but when I heard the testimony in public safety, and it was riveting. They talked about, well, this is retroactive. And some people plea bargain, and there wouldn't be evidence because it was never went to trial. So how do we determine that? Well, may I ask a question of the author?Senator Skinner, would you accept the question from Senator Anderson?Yes, I will. Senator Anderson, please proceed. So, madam author, you were presented with this issue and I know I spoke to you afterwards that this was a major issue, was not intended. And I know you've taken amendments. Can you explain those amendments and how that addresses this specific issue?Yes, thank you for that question. So there were a number of amendments that we took in the approp's Committee. Most of them we took as a result of our discussions with the Legislative Committee of the California DA Association. Specifically, now, your question regarding resentencing but let me describe the three amendments, two of which have to do with resentencing. The first amendment I will describe which does not have to do with resentencing clarifies. We still have on the books exessory to murder, accomplice to murder. But there are those circumstances where an aiding and a bedding depending on the nature of it should still allow for a first degree or second degree murder charge. And the bill as originally drafted was perhaps too narrow. So we accepted an amendment that broadened the provisions to ensure that anyone who aided or abetted a murder would still be eligible for a first or second degree murder charge. Now, on the resentencing portion, these are the things we did. We clarified that certain people would be ineligible for the resentencing potion of the bill due to being, for example, an older person directing a younger person in the crime or masterminding the crime, or some provisions like that. We secondarily flipped the burden of proof so that the petitioner would have to prove why they were eligible under this bill 1437 forre-sentencing rather than the prosecution. So the burden has to be on the petitioner and it addresses the concerns of our District Attorney's that the original bill placed the burden on the Das to show that the petitioner was ineligible. So we flipped that burden of proof, and those are the amendments we are taking. And we are still working very closely with that alleged Committee. We were hopeful for a support position, well there's a few things we may still have to address but we are very close. Thank you. On my own time. Senators, so in the case of the person who simply going to the locals, quicky mart for a slurpee who is driving. This would allow them to be appropriately sentenced because they had no knowledge of the crime. Yet on the flip side if they were part of planning and they had knowledge that they were going in with the intent I'm killing somebody or had the potential of killing somebody they still could be charged,with murder one or murder two. I think this strikes that balance. In the case of retroactive, it's up to the incarcerated person to make the case of why they should be under consideration. Now, one of the concerns I had was, well, they plea-bargained, so it never went to trial. Well there's still a record of evidence. It's all in the police documents. In the charging documents of when they went to them initially andsaid, we're going to charge you with this because we believe that you're guilty, that evidence is still there. That evidence is still pertinent, so  that person who's incarcerated will have to overcome that burden in order to be considered. It is a heavy burden that they have to overcome. So I'm confident there are some minor adjustments that still need to come our way. But I'm confident that the author, and I'm a joint author on this bill, so I'm very confident of my joint author, that it will be addressed moving forward. But the major issues,the major ripple effect that was such a problem that had this bill in such upheaval. Jerry, would you like to say something, I know you're acting out stuff. Do you have something to hide? So I believe that we've overcome a lot and I think this bill is worthy of support. I urge an aye vote. Thank you, Mr. Senator. To the dean in the Senate, Senator Nielson. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, of the Senate. What this doesn't overcome, is a crime of murder. Someone or people, many, are dead, as a result of this behavior. There already is a criteria. The individual had to know the perpetrator, they knew that they intended to commit such crime. And by the words of the conduct, they would obviously have knowledge of being a part. It isn't just, because you just happen to be riding along in a car. Andthe guy just jumped out and started shooting, and killed somebody. It's a lot more than that, that test and that bar is high. Now I respect the DAs and I know that they are under a lot of pressure to look at things differently these days. But this is also a part of the plea bargain as an issue. Plea bargain means, they plead to something lesser then could have been charged. That happens with regularity. And one of the most disturbing aspects of this, particularly regarding the retroactivity is facts now being ever number of years later or even at the time, for the resentencing portion of this. Facts now considered that were not litigated at the time. Now what in part does that mean? At trial, the victims have standing. And for a number of reasons over recent years,the standing of the victims of heinous, atrocious crimes have lesser standing in these proceedings as well as in parole proceedings. I dare this bill does not say that the victims can come back at this so-called resentencing. I would hope it does, and maybe that will be one of the amendments that can be in the future taken. I respect the author too, and I commend the intent. The work with the opposition, I will only say because of the nature of the seriousness of this behavior. I do believe we ought not take under the step. I urge a no vote. Thank you, Senator. Senator Moorlach, good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Mr. President. Sometimes you sort of wish you had the wisdom of Solomon, some of these bills today on dealing with issues of severity. But sometimes to have to separate the wheat from the chaff when people are charged with a crime, and you can't have everybody caught in the guilt net. Be suffering serious penalties. So Mr. President, I think we need to provide judges with flexibility. And on the issue of retro activity, of course, you provide retro activity because once you've modified, you should give that benefit to those before. So I urge an aye vote, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you so much, Senator. Members, we'd like to be able to see if there's any debate or discussion on the floor. Any additional discussion or debate on the floor? Madam Senator, would you like to close, please?Thank you, Mr. President. I think we had a good discussion and now just to close it. I'm remind you that SB 1437 does not abolish the felony murder rule and it retains liability for anyone who killed, aided the killing, planned the killing or even acted with recklessness during the crime, and I ask for your aye vote. Thank you, Madam Senator. Mr. Secretary, can you please call the roll?Allen? Aye. Aye, Anderson? Aye. Aye, Atkins? Aye. Aye, Bates? No. No, Beall? Aye. Aye, Berryhill? No. No, Bradford? Cannella? Aye. Aye, De Leon? Aye. Aye, Dodd? Aye. Aye, Fuller? No. No, Gaines? No. No, Galgiani? Glazer? Aye. Aye, Hernandez? Aye. Aye, Hertzberg? Aye. Aye, Hill? Aye. Aye, Hueso? Jackson? Aye. Aye, Lara? Aye. Aye, Leyva? Aye. Aye, Mcguire? Aye. Aye, Mitchell? Aye. Aye, Monning? Aye. Aye, Moorlach? Aye. Aye, Morrell? No. No, Newman? No. No, Nguyen? No. No, Nielson? No. No, Pan? Aye. Aye, Portantin? Roth? Aye. Aye, Skinner? Aye. Aye, Stern? Stone? No. No, Vidak? No. No, Wieckowski? Aye. Aye, Wiener? Aye. Aye, Wilk? No. No. Mr. Secretary, can you please call the absent members?Bradford? Galgiani? Aye. Aye, Hueso? Aye. Aye, Portantino? Stern? Aye. Aye. Ayes 26, noes 11, the measure passes. Members, in about 60 seconds, we're going to lift the call on five bills. We're going to start from the back and then go to the front. We're going to start with file item 79, then we're going to go to item 27, 33, 86, and 37. Please give us 60 seconds and we will be right back with you. 