Good afternoon, thank your Mr. Chair and members. Shawn Hoffman with the California District Attorney's Association here today in respectful opposition to SB 1437. I'll start by saying, I think we recognize that there is room for discussion on this, on this concept of some level of reduced liability for individuals who are not the actual killer or a major participant in one of these offenses. We've had good conversations with the sponsor of the bill. And there's a mutual interest and the willingness to continue having those discussions as the bill moves forward. The two main reasons why the current proposal doesn't really hit the mark for us. The first is the elimination of murder liability for those who are not the actual killer or a major participant. We're open as I said to a reduced liability and certainly would welcome a conversation by getting rid of this special circumstance. However we believe the law should distinguish between a robbery and a robbery where someone dies. The application of the bill as written today would eliminate that distinction for certain individuals. And we believe that that is not in the interest of public safety. The second piece, and this is with the retroactivity portion of the bill. Mechanically extending this to convictions obtained by plea when coupled with the requirementthat the people prove beyond a reasonable doubt that someone is ineligible for this relief. We believe will have the practical effect, very likely, that actual killers, major participants, and those who act with reckless disregard for human life, would unintentionally benefit from this relief. So, again, we would love to continue working with the sponsors,working with the author to try and address that and find some way to structure that retro-activity peace so that it strikes an appropriate balance. We don't think it's quite there yet but we look forward to continue the conversation and thank you for your time. Next witness, please. Good afternoon Mr. Chairman, members. Cory Salzillo on behalf of the California State Sheriffs' Association, unfortunately here in opposition. I would align myself with most of Mr. Hoffman's remarks, and just point out two things. One, the notion that a felony committed that results in the death of another person would end up having similar ornot very disparate punishment from a felony that does not result in a person's death. I think is very problematic for us. And so that's part of where the felony murder rule comes in, as it distinguishes those two different felonies. The second point I would make is, and sort of what I think Miss Troughman was alluding to, but this bill applies even in situations where a person has pled guilty in the past. And that person is now entitled to the relief contemplated by this bill. Which, I think we can have a discussion about but the problem is that it requires with the bill standards of the people having the burden to find beyond a reasonable doubt that a murder under the definition of the bill was actually committed. Is that you're going to relitigate the entirety of the case. Because in situations where plea was accepted, it's not always the case that the prosecution has proved up every particular fact or piece of information that was available or on the table at the time. So for person pleads earlier in the process, that sort of, that process does not necessarily happen. And so to go back and say okay, well you plead but now the rules are different. And the way the standard is written, again,it's the burden is not on the petitioner, the burden is on the people to go back and say we already got a plea. This person admitted their guilt in the matter, and now we have to go back and re-litigate, not only to the standard of a hearing, but to the standard of effectively a criminal trial on a matter that could be decades old. We think that's extremely problematic from the perspective of public safety, and so for those reasons we ask for your no vote, thank you. I'm going to do something unusual. We have such a logistics problem with this room, some people who are in favor didn't get a chance to testify. So if they come forward to that mic right there and give their quick testimony in support. My name is Sarah Shindia, I'm with Restore Justice, and I'm in support of Senate Bill 1437. You all can move towards the, there's more people, move towards it so we're not waiting between each speaker. Thank you. Hi, my name is Hillary Vlad, I'm a former prosecuter and I'm also in support of this bill. Hi, my name is Tom Guinn, I'm a juvenile who was sent in under this running in murder rules and I'm in support of this bill. Thank you. Do we have any additional witnesses in support? Okay. So now I'm going to switch gears. Are there any witnesses, additional witnesses in opposition?Chair members, Jonathan Belbin, California Police Chief's Association in opposition. Okay, members, do you have any questions? Yes, Mr. Vice Chair. Senator Bradford, go ahead. I'm just a little confused here. What has been described as felony murder, I always thought if you were in the Commission of a crime and had no intentions of committing murder and someone dies in that activity, that was manslaughter. So what's the difference between manslaughter and this here? Because that's- I mean, a manslaughter charges, is manslaughter different than this charge here?It is, Senator. The universe of offenses, the universe of felonies for which you can ultimately be charged with felony murder are based on those that are inherently dangerous. So I think the distinction would be, if you were engaged in the Commission of one of those felonies that is inherently dangerous and someone dies as a result of that, the Commission of that felony. You may be liable for murder under the felony murder doctrine. It's not one of those, it may be something that precedes as a manslaughter charge. So it has more to do with the underlying felony than it does, or the underlying crime. You could certainly have a manslaughter that wasn't as a result of committing a felony. But that's what the distinction is. But you can also have manslaughter charge in the Commission of the felony. Am I correct?Absolutely. So, and the sentencing for manslaughter is far different than felony murder rule. Am I correct? You're correct. So again, I need the distinction of, why would one choose not to charge one with manslaughter because I've seen examples of someone doing a robbery ashas been described here, and someone was killed in the Commission of crime. Again, they did not pull the trigger. And they were there. They might've gotten an accessory. They might have been charged even but I've seen examples of manslaughter. So I'm just trying to understand why you would charge someone with the higher crime, more serious crime I should say. Sure and I think that's going to vary. It's going to be kind of fact specific, and it's going to depend on that person's level of involvement, what the role was that they played in the Commission of that, that underlying offense. Certainly hear we're talking about someone who's not the actual killer, someone who is not a major participant. But even beyond that, there's a kind of spectrum of participation that could bring somebody into the felony murderer rule. And so I think that the prosecutor, in charging that case, would look at that person's level of involvement. They would look at sort of the menu of charging options available to them. Make the charge that they feel is appropriate, given all of the facts and circumstances in that particular case. If I may, through the Chair? Senator Bradford, if you don't mind, I'd like to address that. Your questioning is precisely why I am carrying this bill and trying to narrow the application. Because depending on your perspective, one could say that this has evolved into allowing a far greater amount of prosecutorial discretion than we may have intended. So this bill does not, for example, interfere with accessory to murder or accessory to murder for first degree. One can still be charged with that, it would not eliminate it. Or premeditated murder. So it does not eliminate all circumstances where maybe I wasn't the killer but if I was an intentional part of that killing. Either in the planning of it, or the delivery of it, there are still the first degree charges available to the prosecutor under this bill. My bill does not eliminate it. My bill only narrows it so that in those circumstances where, for example, and we can all say that person was rather used very very bad judgment to be the getaway driver in a situation. And not even a getaway driver. Let's say we know that there are instances where felony murder was charged where the person was just driving and their passenger went into a 7-Eleven. And in the 7-Eleven  want to use, I'll say in the convenience store, and in the process they, themselves, were killed. Meaning the individual who went in to the convenience store, then that person who was driving, and there are actual cases of this, was charged with felony murder. That person driving may have had no concept number one that their passenger even had a weapon or that their passenger was going into the convenient store to do anything amiss. So we're trying to just narrow it so that the use of felony murder is actually for people who not only committed, but who were a full participant, no knowledgeable participant in the committing of a murder or in where murder occurred. So that's really what we're trying to do at this Bill. Senator Weiner. Thank you very much, Senator, and I want to thank the Chair for moving this. I know it's a difficult bill and it's difficult because it's impactful and I strongly support this bill. I know there are limits to how far we can go because of the Constitution. But this is a really big step forward. I remember before Holden elected office, I spent a lot of years practicing law, and I didn't do criminal law, say that. But I remember as a young law student, when we first started to learn about felony murder, and so I was fresh, not jaded. Then sort of a blank slate like most, most students are. And I remember thinking what, what is this felony murder thing? It seems so extreme to me and I remember, you would look at these some of the cases that we would study. They were really extreme, where people who, they perhaps did something wrong, but the idea that they would be guilty of murder and potentially spend the rest of their life in prison was just extreme. And so, trying this a little more makes a lot of sense. People who spend the rest of their lives in prison should be the worst of the worst. And not someone who had no intent to physically harm or murder anyone, and yet we're putting them potentially for the rest of their lives in jail. And I think it's really important for people to understand two things. The first, what the Chair just said that if they were somehow involved, they can still be an accessory and still be guilty of first degree murder. This does not exempt people from that criminal liability. And second, if someone was involved in some way, they didn't know anything, have any involvement with the actual murder but they were involved in a robbery or a kidnapping or another serious felony. They are still on the hook for very, very serious criminal consequences for things like robbery and kidnapping. You can go to jail for a long time for that. So, we're not just letting people off the hook. This is about saying, we should be limiting the most extreme penalty we have for murder, particularly first degree murder, but for murder, to the people who are actually involved in those murders and not tangential to it, and maybe had no knowledge of it. So I'm happy to support this Bill. Is that a motion?  Thank you. Senator Stone. Thank you, Senator Skinner, for your motivation in this bill. And I agree with you. There needs to be a higher bar that prosecutors need to use to ensure that an accessory. Somebody driving a getaway car in these very heinous crimes, robbery, kidnapping, etc. Did in fact have a knowledge of the crime that was going to happen. So my concern with your bill is the retroactivities associated with it and the plea bargaining that went on. And there may be witnesses that are around or not around and the onus falls on the prosecutor to try to basically retry the case in Riverside County. We have a shortage of judges, courts are already congested. I still believe in due process, but these are some realistic concerns because some of these people that maybe retried. Maybe they were true accessories? Maybe they really did have knowledge of what was going to go on, understanding that there are some that maybe probably did not. But some of these people are going to get a free ride out of jail when they probably should remain there. So I'm struggling with the bill. And I don't know where your negotiations are going to go with the DA. It seems like the DA even agrees that there needs to be a higher bar as well. So I wish you continue luck in working with the opposition. I'm going to oppose it today but I'm hoping that I can get to a yes because I agree that there's a problem that needs to be addressed. Through the Chair, if I might address this briefly There were re-sentencing provisions in both Prop 36, the fix to three strikes, and in Proposition 47. And we have found that the court is handling those re-sentencing quite effectively and I am certainly open to speaking with the Das and others about whether we need what additional refinements we might make. So that our re-sentencing process in this bill does not sweep up any folks who should legitimately have been charged with murder and first degree murder. So I am certainly open to that and I appreciate the, well of course, I would like to have the Das neutral or in support of the bill. I do appreciate that the nuanced commentary. And obviously I can't guarantee that we'll get there, but you know that you have my commitment to work on it. And I know that, and I appreciate that. All right, is this due process to approach? Okay, so I'm going to support it today. The retroactive parts are problematic to me. I hadn't thought it through when we had spoke before about the plea bargain aspect. So if someone plead, they really didn't go through any of the details, so they would actually have to chase that down. And so, I'm hoping that you can figure out how to fix that portion, because otherwise, this bill is an awful lot. So I'm going to be supporting it today, but I'd really like to have that portion addressed. So, let's go ahead and we have a motion from. And before we take the vote, I'd like to hear from the author on her close. Thank you so much. Vice-chair, and yes we will definitely look at that re-sentencing part and just as my close. England, which is the originator of the felony murder rule has now eliminated it. The Supreme Court of Canada has ruled it unconstitutional. And this bill before us, 1437, would put California in alignment with states like Arkansas, Kentucky, Hawaii, Michigan, Ohio, and Massachusetts, all whom have narrowed their murder statues to address the breadth of felony murder. So I ask for your aye vote. If you'd take the vote that would be great. Motion is due pass to appropriations. Skinner? Aye. Skinner, aye. Anderson? Aye. Anderson, aye. Bradford? Aye. Bradford, aye. Jackson? Mitchell? Aye. Mitchell, aye. Stone? No. Stone, no. Wiener? Aye. Wiener, aye. We are going to hold that open for people to add on. 