You have SB 1100, item number 8. I do. Thank you, Mr. Chair and members. Today I'm presenting SB 1100, which prohibit the sale of firearms by licensed dealer to any person below the age of 21. While handguns are used in the majority of gun deaths, long guns have been used to perpetuate many of the largest mass shootings in California, including the tragic events that took place in San Bernardino. California is home to some of the most stringent gun laws in the country, one example of this is requiring an individual to be 21 years of age in order to purchase a handgun. Since California's strict gun laws have taken effect, data shows that there's been a successful reduction in the incidence of gun trafficking while not burdening legitimate gun owners or persons who wish to acquire guns. In order to be uniformly consistent, California should apply the 21 year old age limit to long guns Over the past 10 years, Californians have typically purchased more long guns than hand guns. 1,575 long guns were purchased by persons aged 18 to 20 in the first quarter of 18 alone. Of the 26,000 guns used in crimes that were entered into California Department of Justice automated firearm system database, 11,500 were long guns. This bill would exempt certain groups of people such as licensed hunters, military and law enforcement. Preventing the flow of guns is important to public safety. Regardless of whether the firearm is a handgun or long gun or purchased new from a dealer or through a private party transaction. I have Amanda Wilcox from the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence to testify on behalf of 1100 and I respectfully ask for an aye vote. Thank you. Ms. Wilcox. Good morning, again Amanda Wilcox on behalf of the California Chapters of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. The Brady Campaign generally believes that hand guns and long guns should be subject to the same laws. Back years ago, it was thought that long guns were primarily rifles or the grandfather's shot gun locked in the closet. And they weren't treated the same. But now the so called modern day sporting rifle can be a high powered semi automatic with exchangeable magazine that is or can be more lethal or more threatening than a hand gun. So there's no reason that it not be subject to the same laws. This bill though does not actually subject long guns and hand guns to the same law. It just prohibits the purchase of a long gun by someone aged 21 it doesn't prohibit the possession. And as you heard it provides a number of exceptions. It allows for intra-familial sale or transfer of a firearm. So that through tradition of a father giving his son his hunting gun can continue. The American Medical Association just last week issued a statement regarding firearm gun violence prevention policies that they are now supporting. And among the policies they are now supporting banning possession and use of firearms and ammunition by unsupervised youth under the age of 21. And support banning the sales of firearms and ammunition from licensed and unlicensed dealers to those under the age of 21 excluding certain categories of individuals such as military law enforcement personnel. That's exactly what this bill does and I believe the American Medical Association is adopting those policies because they recognize as do I, that maturity, impulsive and reckless behavior and responsibility very greatly among 18 to 21 year olds. For that they are disproportionately linked to crime and from homicide. So it's common sense and it's certainly good public health policy to raise a minimum age for purchase of a long term from a firearms dealer to age 21. Thank you, urge your support. Thank you. Are there any other witnesses and support?Lydia Bourne representing American Academy of Pediatrics California Division. We are in strong support. Thank you, are there any witnesses in opposition? Are there any questions from Committee Members? Mr. Quirk.- Move the bill.- Hearing no other questions, I'm sorry he didn't hear me. They have two seats. I'll speak louder next time. Mr. Chair and Members of the Committee, Craig DeLuz on behalf of the Firearms Policy Coalition, the California Association of Federal Firearms Licensees. I just find it interesting that we're talking. What we're talking about here is a Constitutional numerative right, the right to keep and bear arms. At the age of 18, you are considered an adult. You are legally responsible both criminally and civilly for the decisions that you make, for the contracts that you enter into. When you are allowed to vote you can be sent halfway across the world, handed a firearm, in order to defend your country. And what we're saying is, you do not have that same exact right to be able to defend your own home. I would happen to agree with one point though. We believe that yes, long guns and hand guns do need to be treated the same and that you should have a constitutional right to be able to own them even at the age of 18. We have to decide whether or not we are going to allow individuals to be adults. To be citizens and have full access to the rights thereof or we're going to say that at the age of 18, under the age of 21, you are not an adult. And therefore you do not have access to all of the rights thereof. Either way, we need to make a decision. Either you're a grown up, an adult and a citizen and you have rights or you do not. For these reasons that we oppose this measure, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman and members, Sam Paredes representing Gun Owners of California. Two points. Number one, the federal government recognizes anybody over the age of 17 as a member of the militia. Don't need conscription, don't need registration or anything. They are recognized by the federal government as member of the militia, and this bill specifically denies the Second Amendment rights of members of the militia. Which was the purpose that the Second Amendment wanted to protect, have the ability for the citizenry to come up with their own guns that they own and brought in order to defend this country. This bill specifically prevents it. People are going to say, well, we've done it with handguns. Well, it's gotten away with handguns because we have chosen not to sue on the constitutionality of that thing. Now that it's a clear, across-the-court blanket situation, there will be a lawsuit, just like there was a lawsuit filed in Florida. And secondly, just logic and equal thinking, the statement immaturity, impulsive, and reckless behavior and responsibility vary greatly among 18 and 20 year olds. I mean, if you really believe that, then you would be considering, if you really want to save lives, whether you should be allowing anybody from 18 to 20 to drive. Since more kids die from the misuse or reckless use of cars than they do with firearms in California every single year. You might have to think about, golly, they might be recklessly using that right that we have given them through legislation to vote, which is a huge responsibility. So to say, you're too dumb, too stupid, too immature to own a gun and defend yourself. Now, mind you, there are members of the military who have served our service and have separated from the military before they're 21. And what this bill says that if you come back to the State of California, you get married, and you have your family and you're under 21. Even though you had been off to foreign wars and done all kinds of things, you can't come back. You're no longer a member of the military, but you can't come back and defend yourself or your family in your home because you're under 21, doesn't make a whole lot of sense. So for these reasons and others, we're joined by some of our other colleagues in opposition, we're strongly opposed. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Members of the Committee, for the record, Dan Reid with National Rifle Association. Once again we have a legislative proposal looking to restrict the rights of law-abiding citizens rather than going after the criminal misuse of firearms. It's the same thing over and over again, repeat, repeat, restricting the rights of the law-abiding. For those reasons, we're opposed, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Roy Griffith on behalf of the California Rifle and Pistol Association. For the reasons outlined by my colleagues, we strongly oppose this bill, thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair, Tim McMahon. Last weekend, I spent the weekend with 350 kids, 16, 17, 18, shotguns all over the place, they're all having a good time, all very safe. And on their behalf and my behalf, I ask for your no vote. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. Kathy Lynch representing the National Shooting Sports Foundation, Safari Club International, Outdoor Sportsmen's Coalition, and Outdoor Sportsman's Coalition and California's Sportsman's lobby, all in opposition. I might also point out that women are the ones that are really purchasing firearms now. And you're talking about young women on college campuses, who might be single mothers who are under 21 who have the right to protect themselves, thank you. Thank you, are there any questions from Committee Members? Seeing none, You may close. Thank you, Mr Chair, I would point out that you have to be, I believe, 25 to rent a car. It's not right. So there are reasonable restrictions on multiple things. We know that the two deadliest school shootings, Sandy Hook and Stoneman Douglas, were perpetrated by 18 to 20 year olds with long guns. We know that the survivors in Florida have passionately made the case that the casual gun purchased by a teenager should be prohibited, and we should raise the age to 21. I think we should respond to those pleas, I think if Washington won't lead, California will. Individuals 18 to 20 comprise 4% of the population but commit 17% of gun homicides. Young adults 18 to 25 experience some of the highest rates of serious mental illness, which we should be addressing as well. In 2015, 23.4% of those arrested for murder on non-negligent manslaughter in the US were under 21. We need to do something about this, this is a reasonable approach with, I think, appropriate exemptions that make sense, and I respectfully ask for an aye vote. Thank you. This is one of those things where when I was young, when I was 18, I thought I had a right to smoke and drink alcohol, smoke weed, too, but I was prohibited from it. And on a more serious note, the amount of accidents that young people are involved in, a lot of because of drinking and under the influence, and so it is for that reason that why we do restrict young people at certain ages from doing things. Because they're just not ready yet, and I didn't even know about the example of renting a car. So yes, it does seem to be inconsistent, but it's inconsistent for a reason, it's considered for a reason. So with that, I'm recommending an aye vote. Did we get a motion? That's it. That's it, okay. On SB 1100, the motion is do pass to the Appropriations Committee. Jones-Sawyer? Aye. Jones-Sawyer aye, Lackey? No. Lackey no, Carrillo? Aye. Carrillo aye, Kamlager-Dove? Aye. Kamlager-Dove aye, Kiley? No. Kiley no, Quirk? Aye. Quirk aye, Santiago?That measure passes, thank you. 