Could you get him some coffee? I'm going to call the meeting to order. We'll begin as a subcommittee. I'm going to give the gavel to our Vice Chair, who is not listening to me, so that I can present on AB 1065. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm presenting AB 1065, it's been here before. We've made some adjustments to make the bill much better than it was before. With me today we have... go ahead. Mr. Chairman, members, Dan Felizzatto on behalf of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office. As the Assembly Member said, this bill has been heard in this committee before. With the passage of Prop 47, there was an increase in organized retail theft in California. However our penal code needs to be updated to includea specific crime of organized retail theft. Because right now, all we have is our, you know, new shoplifting used to be either petty theft or petty theft with a prior. This bill remedies that problem and so we are in support. I get two mics, that's special. Mr. Chairman and members, Stacy Dwelley on behalf of the Retail Industry Leaders Association, as well as Target and Home Depot. I want to thank the author and the proponents of the measure and the administration for working with us on a very specific retail issue that's very important to us. And the definition of organized retail crime placing that in California's statute is of significant priority for us. You'll note that statute does sunset in 2021. And I would envision that we might want to be back to extend that as well, so thank you. And I forgot to say and I respectfully ask for your aye vote. Any other witnesses in support? Witnesses in opposition or are you in support?I'm in support. Valerie Nara for the California Chamber of Commerce, we are in support of the bill and the amendments make it better. Okay, any other members in support? Opposition? Okay, questions for anybody on the panel here?How did you come up with such a good bill?Everyone cooperated on this one. Okay. I just have a couple questions. First of all, can you explain the sunset dates that are throughout this bill? There's some interesting short periods of time. Two years is pretty short. Well, we wanted to make sure that if anything else goes on any of the legislation, we'll be able to evaluate how this bill works. We've kind of abdicated our responsibility over... secure members. And we wouldn't go back and actually look at how a law actually impacted community. We felt two years was more than enough time to make that evaluation and more important, if we had to make some adjustments, it then forces us to make adjustments in two years. Organized retail theft is very serious crime, andit's affecting not only the business community, it's affecting a lot of lives. And so, we shouldn't let it languish for a very long time. And that's why we're coming back and really kind of forcing us as a Legislature to look at this again, sooner than later. Yeah, I think you know I'm committed to that. I presented a bill very similar that got rejected in this particular committee and so--It came out of this committee, though. Very, very interesting and I'm just trying to get some clarifying answers because first of all, the study comes out after the expiration date. Help me understand that. The study comes out after, so I'm hoping that we get preliminary information on the study from the study before it's finalized so we if we do after making any adjustments we can. So you're right, it does come out after but we should have pretty good information before then. Actually, my final question has to be with the fact that on the third offense, when somebody has a theft, they're offered diversion on the third offense. It seems like the penalty should escalate, not diminish. Help me understand that. So, and I think it really depends on the crime. I mean, even with what we're doing with bail, for example, we're putting pre-trial risk assessment. And so, this gives an opportunity, not to just specifically go worse and worse and worse. You give people, especially people who are on drugs, or alcohol problems and things of that nature, you give them an opportunity to, if they're into retail theft and they're stealing because they have a drug or alcohol problem, we give them more time to get through some kind of diversion program so they can help them with the alcoholism. As you know probably better than I do, sometimes,for it to take, it doesn't take one or two times, sometimes, unfortunately, it takes seven times. And so this allows that to be part of the thing that we're looking for to make sure we're not just jailing people indiscriminately when we can provide them some services. That strategy is kind of confusing to me but it seems like it should be at the very first offense instead of the third offense. There'll be some, I will believe there will be some diversion programs. As you know, I put $37.3 million in for divergent programs for youth and we're going to continue to put in diversion programs. Mr. Chairman and Members, Dan Felizzatto on behalf of the LA DA's office. Diversion, whether or not the Legislature or the electorate through an initiative, a local District Attorney can always establish a diversion program unless it's statutorily prohibited. So diversion is an option, as I understood, up through the third offense. Honestly,it would be, at least in LA county. Outside some kind of narcotic or alcohol issue, you're probably not going to get a diversion on a third case that court or the DA would object to it, if it was just because the person was caught for the third time. There would have to be some kind of underlying issue where diversion would be appropriate. If diversion isn't appropriate then, like I said, I can only speak for LA County but we would object cause it's my understanding that diversion is optional. It doesn't mandate the diversion be granted. Okay. Any other questions, comments? Do we have a quorum?Yeah, you can ask. Can we establish that first? Let's go ahead and do that. Jones-Sawyer? Here. Lackey? Here. Carrillo? Here. Kamlager-Dove? Kiley? Here. Quirk? Here. Santiago?Okay, quorum is present. Anybody else have any comments, anything they would like to say? You can close. Respectfully ask for your aye vote. On AB 1065, the recommendation is to be concurred in. Jones-Sawyer? Aye. Jones-Sawyer, aye. Lackey? Not voting. Lackey, not voting, Carrillo? Aye. Carrillo, aye. Kamlager-Dove? Kiley? Kiley, Aye, Kylie aye. Quirk? Aye. Quirk aye. Santiago?Measure is out, congratulations. Thank you. I think that's it, right?On 1065, Kamlager-Dove. Kamlager-Dove, aye. We'll hold the roll for another 4 minutes, and then we'll close for Mr. Santiago. On AB 1065, Santiago? Aye. Santiago, aye. Public Safety Committee meeting stands adjourned. 