Madam Chair we're presenting item 26, SB 1437. Whenever you and your witness are ready we may begin. Thank you so much. I know we had to take a break. I wish our other Committee Members were here, but I know that there's lots of competing committees, so it is not due to a disinterest. But I am presenting SB 1437, which we have titled the Best Practices Act, because its purpose is for better and equitable sentencing through thoughtful practices. Now what do I mean by that?California's murder statute has been applied, has overtime been more broad in its application, and I think that most of us have the perspective that our punishment should fit the crime and what's happened overtime is that prosecutors have, due to a kind of archaic common law, the felony murder rule. They've been able to replace the intent to commit murder, with the intent to commit a felony in those situations where a felony results in a death. What does that mean? That means that a large number of people in California who did not commit murder have been sentenced with first degree murder,or I would have put this more accurately, they were charged with first degree murder and then sentenced to life without parole. So disproportionate long sentences for people who did not actually commit the murder, and I won't give all the statistics on that, butI will raise one about the women in California State facilities. We have 70, we have about 182 women, and I may be off by just a couple, that are now serving a life sentence in California. Of those women, 72% of them did not commit the homicide. So what SB 1437 does, is reserves the harshest punishments for those who intentionally planned, or actually committed the murder, and it establishes a process for re-sentencing in those cases where the individual can demonstrate that their charge was not proportionate to their participation in the crime. And here to testify as my witnesses in support are, Robert Garcia from the Jesuit Restorative Justice Initiative, and Jacque Wilson from the SF Public Defender's Office. Okay, is it on? Okay. My name is Robert Garcia. In 1992, I was 16 years of age when I was involved in two street robberies that led to the killing of one man and the serious assault of another man. That night, I got drunk and high with friends, who were also juveniles and a part of the street gang I belonged to. We decided to go out and rob people. I was unarmed, but one of my co-defendants, then 17 years old, was armed with a folding knife. When a victim resisted, my co-defendant stabbed him. I later learnt that this man had died. When I found that out I was horrified. I had intended to rob, but I never meant that anyone be killed. I broke down when I learnt that a person has lost his life. I was charged as an adult, plead guilty to a first degree murder charge, and was sentenced to a term of 26 years to life in state prison. I did not understand the felony murder rule at the time. It was confusing to me that I will be sentenced for a crime that I never agreed to commit, and never intended to commit. The perpetrator of the killing received an indeterminate sentence of 45 years to life in state prison. I do not excuse my participation in the robberies that night. My behavior was horrible and had a ripple effect that affected many lives. I understood that in 1992 when I realized, when that had happened, and I know that now. I was young, immature teenager wo was impulsive and failed to appreciate risk and consequences. My father had left my home to be with another woman who he had impregnated. My mom was emotionally devastated, and for various reasons, could not give me the support I needed. Without guidance my peers and I turned to each other for support. The pre-sentencing report referred to me in terms reserved for an animal, called me feral, and the probationary report questioned whether I even had a conscience. I assure you I did have a conscience and I understood the robberies I committed that night deserve punishment. However, I never intended to kill anyone or to inflict lifelong suffering on others. Were it not for the felony murder rule, I would have received a sentence of over 11 years in state prison for my conduct that night. However, because of the felony murder rule, even though I did not kill nor intend to kill, I was sentenced to more than two decades in state prison, and I remained there until January 14, 2014. I did change as I matured. Even though I was in prison, I disassociated myself from the negative peer influences of the prison gang culture, and immerse myself into education, and figuring out the causative factors that led to my delinquency and criminality through 12 step self help programs. In 2014, I was paroled from prison. Through temporary agencies I found work in local factories in Compton, California. My first customer service job was at Walmart, and with a sincere desire to give back to my community, I became a member of the anti-recidivism coalition. In 2012, I got married. And now I have a two-year-old daughter. My wife is pregnant with our second child on the way in June of this year. I am now the Assistant Executive Director of Jesuit Restorative Justice Initiative. For the past two years I have traveled to many California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation facilities on a bi-monthly basis to give hope and motivations to thousands of inmates. Last year, I designed a program for our organization called Footprints,which strives to transform the lives of incarcerated gang members by building supportive relationships, and empowering them with the tools to recognize the negative reality of gang life, and disassociating themselves from getting involvement. I tried to give all the prisoners I encountered hope, to tell them that they're more than their worst actions,and encourage them to stay on the path of rehabilitation. I have been approved by the CBCR to enter 10 prisons, which is a rare privilege for a formerly incarcerated man, still on parole. As a part of my work, I also met with survivors of crime and parents who have lost children to violence who are working to forgive those who have so harmed them. I do not advocate for SB1437 for myself. I have already spent over two decades in prison. Instead, I am here for all those who are inside who did not commit murder, nor intended to commit murder, and yet who still remain incarcerated for murder. I was granted parole in 2013 at my original parole hearing. I can tell you that to receive a grant of parole, the commissioners want a prisoner to accept responsibility for the crime of commitment. For accomplices sentence other than felony murder role, this puts one in an almost impossible position. A person must accept responsibility for a murder that one did not do nor ever intended to do. I believe that people must be held accountable for their actions, but that punishment must be tied to one's intentions. I urge you to vote yes on Senate bill 1437. Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. And thank you, Senator Skinner for having us here on this historical day in this historical building. My name is Jacque Wilson. And I'm a deputy public defender in San Francisco. And this is my father, Matt Wilson who is behind me here. And Matt Wilson is retired from the United States Air Force, and he served two tours of duty in Vietnam with distinction. The reason that we are here today is that my brother, and my father's son, who is in the picture right here is charged with felony murder. And that is true, even though he did not kill anyone, attempt to kill anyone, or intend to kill anyone. He wasn't even present at the scene. But none of that matters under the felony murder rule. Under the felony murder rule, a person can be sentenced to first degree murder even when they did not kill or intend to kill. My family is not the only family that has been devastated by this antiquated practice. The felony murder rule has taken the heaviest toll on young people, women, and people of color. This toll can only be measured in heartbreak. My 83-year-old father's last wish is to be able to hug his son again. My niece's wish is to be reunited with her father, who is not a killer. To be clear, SB1437 does not abolish the felony murder rule. It merely limits it application to those who actually kill, intended to kill or who are major participants and acted with reckless indifference. SB1437 is a rule of individual responsibility. It is a bedrock principle of the law, and of fairness, that a person should be punished for his or her actions according to his or her own level of individual responsibility, and not for the action of others. Life sentences for non-perpetrators are the failing act. Not only fails to place blame squarely where it belongs, but it approaches cruel and unusual punishment. SB1437 allows for an individual assessment of a participant's culpability. The average age of a person convicted under the felony murder rule is 20. Psychological research cited by the United States Supreme Court demonstrates that people continue to cognitively develop into their mid-20s. Before that time, young people have not fully developed the decision making skills to remove themselvesfrom dangerous situations, particularly when older peers are involved. Research has shown that the felony murder rule does not deter crime. 99.5% of people incarcerated for murder were not even aware that the rule existed before they committed their crimes. It cost of over $70,000 annually to incarcerate a person. This bill would save taxpayers millions. Further, as many lawyers who have litigated felony murder cases can tell you, in order to avoid the first degree murder charge for an accomplice, an effective lawyer will leave no stone unturned. That means the cases are in trial courts for years prior to trial. And this can cost the court and counties hundreds of thousands of dollars per defendant. I want to reiterate the people who we're talking about that this bill would impact are not murderers, despite the label. They are our sons, our daughters, our community members, our friends. Over 35 years ago, the California Supreme Court called the felony murder rule Barbaric, and asked this Legislature to end it. You all have the power to make that change. We now ask this Legislature to heed this call. I thank you very much. Additional witnesses in support, please. Jennifer Redding, Deputy Public Defender, Santa Clara County. I support 1437, thank you. He's got it. Henry Ortiz with the Anti-Recividism Coalition, I strongly support this. Donna Mandel in support, on behalf of San Francisco Public Defender Jeff Adachi. Strongly in support of this bill. Andrea with Californians for Safety and Justice, in strong support. Dennis Flynn with Cares for Youth, strongly support. This is my daughter Kelly, who is serving a 33 to life sentence because some of her friends were going to beat up somebody that assaulted her. And after she left they killed him. And so she got 33 to life under felony murder. My name is Christina Mendoza and I'm a part of Families United to End Life Without the Possibility of Parole, and I fully support this bill.  Lozario Thomas with the Youth Justice Coalition and we would be honored to co-sponsor this bill and I urge you to support this bill. Thank you. My name is Gabriella Reese. My husband is on his 25th year on a 15 to life sentence. And I'm in strong support of this bill. Eric Byers, California Public Defenders Associaton, support the bill. My name is Carmer Martinez, I'm with Brown Issues and I'm strongly support this bill. Ken Mendoza, the Policy Associate at the Anti-Recidivism Coalition and Formerly Incarcerated and I strongly support of this bill. My name is Taina Vargas, I'm with the Initiate Justice. We're a co-sponsor and strongly support the bill. Alex Mallick, a proud co-sponsor from Restore Justice in strong support, thank you. Hi, my name is Janet Davis and my son is serving life without parole based on the felony murder rule. Kim McGill from the Injustice Coalition. We're honored to be co-sponsors on this bill. Thank you. Sue Burrel from the Pacific Juvenile Defender Center. We're honored to be co-sponsors of this bill. Lina Luna from Orange County with a loved one who has served 21 years of an LWOP sentence as an aider and abettor, I support this bill. My name is Aldo Romero, I'm a self awareness and recovery in the anti recidivism coalition and I strongly support this bill. Hi, my name is Selena Chapin. I'm on the policy team at the Anti-recidivism Coalition, and I strongly support this bill. Hello, my name's Andrew Wynn. Director of Project Rebound, Sacramento State University and ARC. And I strongly support this bill. Hello, my name is Alison Ramsey. I am a law student with the University of San Francisco's School of Law Racial Justice Clinic, and I strongly support this Bill. Josh Pinius with the Anti Racism Coalition, proud co-sponsor in strong support. Lavell Baylor with Anti Recidivism Coalition and Deputy Director for Food for Youth out of Santa Barbara, and I strongly support this bill. My name is Anthony Nunez, I'm the Sacramento coordinator for the Anti Recidivism Coalition and we strongly support this bill. Chris Mingley, I'm a member of the Anti-Recidivism Coalition. I was directly impacted by this felony murder rule, and it's because I did not get held accountable for someone else's murder that I'm out doing great things today, thank you, and I strongly support this bill. My name is John Rodriguez and I'm with the Anti-Recidivism Coalition and we strongly support this bill. My name is Cassandra Sabatino and I'm with Advocates for Justice and I strongly support this bill. My name is Maureen Edwards and I'm from San Francisco, I'm a social worker and strongly support this bill. My name is Eddie Montes, I'm the Alliances director with the Californians for Safety and Justice and we strongly support this bill. My name is Janet Lindquist and I strongly support this bill. My name is Gillian Sheer and I'm the founder of Felony Murder Elimination Project. That's my son who is 20 years old at the time of the conviction, of the crime. We are a proud co-sponsor of this bill. And we strongly support it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Emily Harris on behalf of the Ella Baker Center for Human Rights in strong support. My name is Greg Fidel. I'm with Initiate Justice and we strongly support SB 4737. My name's Keith Chandler. I served 21 years in prison for a felony murder. This bill is narrowly tailored, it would not have helped me. And I strongly support this bill. Hi, my name is Colby Lens with the California Coalition for Women Prisoners. Here for the hundreds of domestic violence survivors that we work with who were sentenced for their abuser's actions. My name is Alisa Beiera I'm with Survived and Punished which supports criminalized survivors of domestic and sexual violence and I strongly support this bill. Mike Hines, parent of an inmate under the Felony Murder Rule, and support this bill. I'm Petra Hines, I support this bill. My name is Gloria Bell and my husband is serving 20 plus years. And I'm here to support the bill. My name is Pamela Eighson and I'm with Felony Murder Rule and I'm here to support Joseph Bale who's my son-in-law and I support the bill. Good afternoon, Micah Doctorov on behalf of the ACLU of California in proud support. Morgan Carvahall with the California Attorney General, my gosh. California Attorneys for Criminal Justice, thank you, in support. Good afternoon, my name is Lupita Carrillo the Justice Coalition and strongly support. Good afternoon my name is Phillip Lester I'm with anti recidivism coalition and justice coalition and I'm in strong support of this bill. Rebecca Young, Co-Chair of the Racial Justice Committee for the San Francisco Public Defender's Office. Good afternoon. We are in strong support of this bill. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Theo Sessums. I'm with the Anti-Recidivism Coalition here in Sacramento. I was actually sentenced to life without, behind the felony murder rule myself. I came back on appeal in 2016. I did 18 years of my life. I was sentenced to 19. I'm in strong support of this bill, thank you. Good afternoon, my name is Amati Saryano, I'm a criminal defense attorney and an animal rights activist and I am in support of this bill, thank you. Hi, my name is Roman Locker. I'm a UC Hastings law student. I'm in strong support of this Bill. My name is Jason Stinson, I'm a UC Hastings law student and I'm in strong support of this Bill Franchelsie Bail ARC member and I'm in support of this Bill. Thank you. Fatima Kong, American Friends Service Committee and FCL in support of the bill. Janet Berger. My son is affected by this bill. And I strongly support it. My name is Adriana Alogi. My husband is serving 15 years for alleged lookout. Hi, my name is Julie Mai. On behalf of Restore Justice, I strongly support this bill. Hello, my name is Richard Wally. I'm with the Anti-Recidivism Coalition. I strongly support this bill. Do we have any additional witnesses in support? If you wouldn't mind making room for the witnesses in opposition. 