Bill's out. Thanks so much. So now I'll go to SB 1437. And so what SB 1437 does is address the fact that California's murder statute has not been modified for decades. And when it was adopted, it swept up the English common law concept of felony murder, which is, as I indicated, a common law concept that is more than a century old which basically does not so much hold, the culpability is of the person, a question, is less a factor in the charge for the crime. And instead any time a crime that was committed where a death occurs, the felony murder rule sweeps up any participant in that crime. Now, what that in its practical effect has resulted in is that we have people in California who are serving life without parole sentences who were convicted under the felony murder rule. who were neither aware that a murder occurred, planned the murder or committed the murder. And while we still have on the books such laws as accessory to murder and accomplice to murder, we have the ability through existing statutes to capture those, what we might call, participants in a crime and deal with their less culpability. That does not have to apply a felony murder rule to those who had a very minimal, if almost non-existent, role in the crime. So that is what this bill is attempting to do, is narrow that statute and narrow it in a way that patterns after the State of Ohio, the State of Kentucky, and a number of other states who similarly did this after court cases within their state. And within the State of California, our own Supreme Court, our Superior Court has described the application of California's felony murder rule as barbaric, but has not changed the sentences and has indicated that it is the domain of the Legislature to address this problem. So that is why I bring the bill before you today, in order to address that problem. And I would like my witnesses now to speak and witnesses in support to testify. Thank you. You have five minutes apiece, not each, but five minutes in total, I'm sorry. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Jacque Wilson, and this is my father Mac Wilson. He's a retired Air Force sergeant. He served two tours of duty in Vietnam with distinction. He is my hero. He is my inspiration. The reason that we are here is because my younger brother is charged with felony murder. And this is true even though he did not kill anyone, attempt to kill anyone or intend to kill anyone. He wasn't even present at the scene. However, under the felony murder rule, none of that matters. And to be clear, SB 1437 does not abolish the felony murder rule, it merely limits its application. My family is not the only family which has been devastated by this antiquated practice. The felony murder rule has taken the heaviest toll on young people, women and people of colour. This toll can only be measured in heartbreak. My 83-year-old father's last wish is to be able to hug his son again. My 12-year-old niece's only wish is to be reunited with her father. It costs over $80,000 annually to incarcerate a person. This bill would save taxpayers millions. Further, effective lawyers leave no stone unturned when litigating accomplice liability felony murder cases. That means that cases are in the trial court for years prior to trial. This can cost the court and counties hundreds of thousands of dollars per defendant. The people we are talking about are not murderers despite their label. They are sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, friends and community members. Over 35 years ago, the California Supreme Court called the felony murder rule barbaric and asked this Legislature to fix it. You all have the power to make that change. We ask that you make that change. Thank you. Good morning.- Good morning.- My name is Kate Chatfield and I'm the Policy Director of Re:store Justice. SB 1437 is a rule of individual responsibility. It is a bedrock principle of the law and the fairness that a person should be punished for his or her actions according to his or her own level of individual responsibility and not for the actions of another. Life sentences for non-perpetrators of the fatal act not only fails to place blame where it belongs but it also approaches cruel and unusual punishment. SB 1437 allows for an individualized assessment of a participant's culpability. Something that is done throughout our criminal justice system with the felony murder rule being one glaring exception. The average age of a person convicted under the felony murder rule as a non-perpetrator is 20 years old. Psychological research sided by the United States Supreme Court demonstrates that people continue to cognitively develop into their mid-20s. Before that time, young people have not fully developed the decision-making skills to remove themselves from dangerous situations, particularly when older peers are involved. Moreover, studies revealed that 72% of women incarcerated in California with a life sentence under the felony murder rule. We're not the perpetrators of the homicide, they were accomplices in the underlying crime only. SB 1437 would also allow resentencing for people who did not kill or intend to kill. Instead, these incarcerated Californians would be sentenced for the crimes they did commit and would no longer serve life sentences for crimes they did not commit. As outlined in this Committee's analysis, research reveals there's no deterrent effect to the felony murder rule. As sided in the analysis, if the primary rationale for a state to retain the felony murder rule is to reduce crime, the state should reconsider this rule. Public safety and just criminal laws are not a zero sum game. The State of California can still protect public safety and have a just and equitable criminal justice system. I urge you to vote yes on SB 1437 today. Thank you. Are there any other witnesses in support?Hello, my name is Dennis Flynn, and CARES for Youth is an organization that I represent. We're a proud co-sponsor of this bill. I'm also here as a parent of a daughter who has served 22 years under the felony murder rule, she was not there- Name and organization.- And did not participate in the murder. Thank you. Charisse Domingo with Silicon Valley De-Bug in San Jose, California, and we support this bill. Thank you. Joanne Scheer, founder of Felony Murder Elimination Project. My only child is serving life without parole under this law.- Thank you, ma'am.- Thank you very much, we support this bill. Rebecca Weiker with Re:store Justice, and also I'm a survivor family member, my sister was a victim of homicide, and I support this bill. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. Philip Melendez with Re:store Justice, and I support this bill. Thank you. Margo George from the California Public Defenders Association, in support of the bill. Thank you. Kim McGill from the Youth Justice Coalition. We're proud to be co-sponsors of this bill. Thank you. Sandra Huerta on behalf of Lee A. West Consulting, I support this bill. Lee West, former state prison number K36652, current operator of Lee A. West Consulting, in support of this bill. Thank you. Samantha Perez, Re:store Justice and Student Body President of Santa Clara University, and I support this bill. Alex Mallick from Re:store Justice, proud co-sponsors. I'm Carrie Mojica, resident of Bakersfield, California, and on behalf of Andrew James Oliver, I support this bill. Thank you. Mike Himes, Elk Grove, California, on behalf of our son, we support this bill. Thank you. Petra Himes, I'm a parent of a son in prison, and I support this bill. Julie Mai with Re:store Justice, in strong support of this bill. Thank you. Isabella Deatherage, student at Pomona College, on behalf of Advocates for Justice, I support this bill. Mica Doctoroff, ACLU of California, in support. Janet Davis, my son is 19 and serving life without parole based on the felony murder rule, and I support this bill. Thank you, ma'am. Chris Moore, private citizen, in support of this bill. Marisa Larson, on behalf of my father who's been in jail for 20 plus years, I'm in support of this bill. My name is Courtney Hill, and I support this bill. All right. Hello, my name is Greg Fidell with Initiate Justice, proud co-sponsor, in strong support of this bill. Thank you. Darcy Covert, student at Yale Law School, intern at San Francisco Public Defender's Office, strongly in support of this bill. Thank you. My name is Sarah Shindia, I'm with Re:store Justice, we're proud cosponsor on this bill. Thank you. Again, Lester Messa, ... Coalition, I support this bill too. Thank you. Let's keep it moving. Nicholas ... from the Whittier College Social Justice Coalition, in strong support of this bill. Thank you. Andrea Perry with Californians for Safety and Justice, we are cosponsors of the bill, strongly support. Thank you. Jim Lindburg, on behalf of the Friends Committee on Legislation of California, in support. Ignacio Hernandez, on behalf of the California Attorneys for Criminal Justice, in support. Rourke Stacey, on behalf of the Pacific Juvenile Defender Center, proud co-sponsor of this bill. Mary Garvey, Human Rights Watch, and Human Rights Watch supports the bill. Good morning. Cecilia Chavez from San Jose, California, and Silicon Valley De-Bug, and we're here to support this bill as well. Israel Villa with MILPA Salinas, in strong support. Hector Cervantes from Anaheim, California, and I support this bill. Good morning, Daniel Mendoza with Farms and Family, we support this bill. Good morning, Destiny Villa from Salinas, California representing MILPA, strong in support of this bill, thank you. Thank you, I think we got about 30 more. My name's Bridget Cervelli and I support this bill. Good morning, my name is Katrina Reyes and I'm in strong support of 1437. Thank you. My name is Lavell Baylor, and I support this bill. Thank you. Hi, my name's Selena Chapen from the Anti-Recidivism Coalition, I support this bill. I'm Anthony Robles with the Youth Justice Coalition and we're proud cosponsors of this bill, thank you. My name is Tony, I'm with the YJC, I'm a cosponsor of this bill, thank you. My name is Jaroda Brown with the Youth Justice Coalition, and we strongly support this bill. Cassandra Zappaterreno with Advocates for Justice, and I strongly support this bill. Mica Doctoroff, speaking for the Ella Baker Center for Human Rights, in support. Terrell Williams, L.A. County Youth Justice Coalition, I was affected by this-All right that's it, we have a lot of people after, so thank you, name and organization. Hi, my name is Carrie Reynolds, I'm with the Youth Justice Coalition and I strongly support 1437. Thank you. My name is Chidozie Easy, YJC, I strongly support, thanks. Thank you, sir. My name is Mikaela Venegas, I'm an intern with Communities United for Restorative Youth Justice and I support this bill because we can't even hold police accountable.- Thank you, ma'am.- But we want to hold people accountable?Thank you. Daria Larisadae, National Center for Youth Law, I strongly support this bill. Frankie Guzman, National Center for Youth Law, I strongly support this bill. Esteban Nunez, the Anti-Recidivism Coalition, and I strongly support this bill. Thank you. Fernando Herrera, Anti-Recidivism Coalition, and I support this bill. Michael Mendoza with the Anti-Recidivism Coalition in strong support. Thank you. Jennifer Redding, Deputy Public Defender, Santa Clara County, and I strongly support this bill. Thank you. My name is Sasha Alexander and I'm here with Schools Not Prisons, and I strongly support this bill. Thank you. Kent Mendoza with the Anti-Recidivism Coalition, in strong support of this bill. Thank you. My name is Henry Ortiz, I'm with the Anti-Recidivism Coalition and Self-Awareness and Recovery, and I strongly support this bill, thank you. Julissa Gutierrez with Silicon Valley De-Bug, and I support this bill. Thank you. Good morning, Yolanda Ledesma with Silicon Valley De-Bug, and I strongly support this bill, thank you. Nai Sohabe with SAR, and I strongly support this bill. My name is Robert Garcia, Jesuit Restorative Justice Initiative, support this bill. Daniel Herron, Anti-Recidivism Coalition, strong support for this bill. I'm Heath Madom, I'm a teacher in Oakland Unified School District, strong support for this bill. Josh Pinus, Anti-Recidivism Coalition, proud sponsor and strong support. John Rodriguez, Anti-Recidivism Coalition, and I strongly support this bill. Phillip Lester, I'm with YJC and ARC, I'm a strong supporter of this bill. Oscar Canales, Women of Substance, Men of Honor, and Anti-Recividism Coalition, I strongly support this bill. My name is Katina Perry, and this is Caleb Falloway from Elk Grove. I'm a mom, and my son is Harvest Davidson.- Thank you.- And I strongly support this bill. Thank you. James Birch, Policy Director, Anti-Police Terror Project, in strong support. Thank you. 