And we will go to Mr. Wood, item eight, AB 1919. Whenever you're ready. Thank you, Madam Chair and members. Late on the night of October 8th last year, wildfires raced through Sonoma and Napa and Mendocino Counties and lives were changed forever. These fires destroyed over 8,000 homes including over 3,000 in the City of Santa Rosa alone. Thousands of my constituents lost their homes in one night. This nightmare scenario took what was already a difficult housing market and turned it into a crisis. Current law prevents the cost of any good or service including housing from being raised more than 10% during a declared disaster. Unfortunately, unscrupulous landlords and vacation rental hosts have managed to skirt these protections and are now taking advantage of those who lost everything. In less than a week, the median rental rate in Sonoma County jumped by over 35%. There were dozens of examples of homes being offered for more than double the pre-disaster price of similar homes. This happened because current law does not provide a method for determining the base rent of a home that was not on the market before a declared disaster. As a result, home owners who have a second home in the area have been able to put their house on the market at whatever price they deem fit. With a loss of over 5% of the county's housing stock, my district has become a prime hunting ground for landlords to take advantage of fire victims. AB 1919 closes the new rental loophole in existing law by defining base rent as 160% of the HUD fair market price. This definition provides a clear defined number for both landlords and tenants to ensure everyone is playing by the rules. I'd like to thank the Committee staff for their hard work on this bill and respectfully request an aye vote. Here to testify on behalf of the Sonoma County District Attorney is Matt Sheaver. Excellent, go ahead. Good afternoon, my name's Matt Sheaver. I'm a deputy District Attorney in the consumer protection unit of the DA's office. Immediately after the fires our office did extensive outreach to get the word out about price gauging in the rental housing markets. Because we knew it was going to be an issue. And we did outreach both to the real estate industry and to the public. And we've received hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of inquiries from landlords, tenants, property managers, realtors, you name it, asking what they can and can't do under the statute. We've investigated close to 250 complaints of price gouging in the rental housing area. And we think there are many more cases that were unreported because of fear of retaliation by landlords. So far, we've filed five criminal cases. And we have many more cases that are still under review for either criminal or civil prosecution. Penal Code Section 396 currently lumps rental housing in with other consumer goods or services like bottled water. And what we've learned is that there are several unique issues in trying to apply 396 to the rental housing market. And what we need to clear standards for both the real estate industry and the law enforcement. AB 1919 would clarify certain aspects of Penal Code Section 396 as it applies to rental housing and extend 396's reach to a couple of situation that are not currently covered. With respect to the areas of clarification, the first is what I'll call insurance bidding. One of the most prevalent arguments that we've had is it wasn't price gouging because insurance companies came in and bid up the price or offered me more money. There's currently no defense that's called for that allows for that in the statute. And it's created a lot of problems. It affects the housing market in general. And it certainly affects those persons who are not insured. Particularly renters and people who don't own their own homes. The next area, 396 currently has a defense for items that are on sale. If an item is on sale, pre-disaster, post-disaster, you can bring the item back up to its regular price plus 10%. And we're seeking some clarification as to how that applies to rental housing. The next area, 396 currently allows sellers of items to pass through certain increased costs that are imposed on them. And again, AB 1919 would clarify how that applies to rental housing. Next is the area of what I'll call furniture and ancillary goods. We found that there were some landlords that attempted to circumvent the statute by charging exorbitant rates for home furnishings, gardening, other services like that. So AB 1919 would clarify what's allowed in that area and how much. And then the last is the length of the rental term. Another frequent offense or argument that we heard was that a landlord could raise the rent much higher because pre-fire they were in a 12 month lease and post-fire they're limiting it to a 3 month lease. So it's a different product. So we'd like to see that area addressed. I'll turn now to the areas where 396 would be extended under the current bill. As the Assembly Member mentioned, the Santa Rosa Press Democrat ran a story several weeks after the fires, that according to Zillow, median rents in the county were up 36%. Zillow largely attributed that to new rentals on the market. Properties that hadn't been rented pre-fire that were now coming on the market post-fire and vacation rentals, which were now being offered as a more permanent housing. And 396 does not adequately address either of those areas. And so those landlords were essentially allowed to charge whatever the market would bear. And as mentioned, that created a lot of problems in several high profile situations. Those were the types of situations that were in the paper. It skewed the market. It was up 36%. And it raised basic fairness issues. Why one landlord on a particular street could only cause $3,000 a month and someone down the street with essentially the same house could charge $9,000 a month under the same statute. While we don't want to deter folks from making their rental homes available in times of crisis, we think AB 1919 would provide for a fair return to property owners that are not looking to take advantage of a disaster. And that's through creating a clear standard, which would be 160% of the fair market rate that's established by HUD. Those rates are published on their website. They're easily attainable and should provide clarity. And then the last issue we'd like to see addressed are evictions. According to legal aide, Sonoma County saw 20% increase in evictions post-fire. We received dozens of complaints from people who were evicted from their homes and then saw on Zillow or other areas that the home is now being offered for rent at much higher rates than they were charging. And this creates two problems, right? Now you have the pricing gouging problem and you have new people that are on the market now because they were evicted unfairly. And so, AB 1919 would address that issue by providing special deterrence specifically for evictions. Our office would respectfully request that you vote yes on this bill. Other witnesses in support. Madam Chair and Members, Dan Felizzatto on behalf of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office for all the reasons stated. Sean Hoffman with the California District Attorneys Association in support. Good afternoon. Karen Lange on behalf of the Board of Supervisors in Sonoma and Napa Counties. The stories that he was just describing are quite real. Some landlords have done the right thing, others have not. We're urging you to pass this bill today. Thank you. Madam Chair, Members, David Jones on behalf of the City of Santa Rosa in strong support, thank you. Good afternoon, Alexander Herndon with the Western Center on Law and Poverty, in strong support. Debra Carlton with the California Apartment Association, the owners were asking to do the right thing. We ask for your aye vote, thank you. Hi, Catherine Borg with the Western Manufactured Housing Communities Association. We don't have a position on the bill, but we're still working with the author on some unique amendments, thank you. Any witnesses in opposition? All right, seeing none, if we have any comment on the Dais, Senator Stone?Thank you, again, Madam Chair, Dr. Nguyen, thank you for bringing this forward. Startling to hear some of these statistics that went on. I can't think of just about anything that could be as devastating as losing your home and losing all your pictures and all your family memorabilia. And then to be taken advantage of in trying to maintain your life in a community while your life is being rebuilt. I mean, this is a quality of life human issue. And I appreciate that you're bringing this forward. We, in your district, sustained some significant mortality and devastation. And we learn from these types of disasters on how we can better protect our constituents with the lessons that are learned. And I applaud you for bringing this forward. And I'm happy to move the bill at the appropriate time. Thank you. All right, so we have a motion. And if anything, I would say the 160% is generous, it's an emergency. And there were so many units that were lost, and so I feel I can support the bill. I would've probably put it at a lower level of meeting, just considering what the circumstances is, and I probably would have extended the eviction protection for a few months after the State of emergency just given how we know how long it's going to take to replace those units. But I'm glad you're doing it, and if there's no other question, we'll allow you to close. Just thank you for the consideration, it is a crisis. It has effected so many people in so many ways, the loss of housing. This meeting today with members of my community at the small business event, and they have employees that are being evicted on a regular basis, and it's very difficult. So this housing shortage, and these kinds of activities, are affecting not only just the lives of those people but businesses and our ability to recover. With that, I just respectfully ask for your aye vote. All right, we'll do a roll call. Motion is due pass to GO. Skinner? Skinner, aye. Anderson? Bradford? Jackson? Mitchell? Mitchell, aye. Stone? Stone, aye. Wiener?