I'll waive on 1014, and I'll just present on 1437. Okay, the floor is yours. SB 1437 is a, basically addresses the fact that California's murder statute is broad. And what's happened over time is that prosecutors have increasingly widened their application of that murder statute, bringing a murder charge even when a death was accidental, unintentional, or occurred without the individual who is being charged knowledge. The result is that we have many people who did not commit murder, who are then charged with first degree murder and then serve disproportionately long sentences. For example, 72% of the women now held in California State facilities who are incarcerated under this doctrine, and have received life sentences did not commit murder. So what SB 1437 does is, narrows California's murder statutes sothat the sentence more accurately reflects. It's not just that the sentence, but rather, the ability to charge, and thus the sentence that follows the charge, more accurately reflects the person's culpability for the crime. So that those who intentionally planned or actually committed the murder,or had more direct involvement would be the only ones who would be able to be charged with felony murder. This aligns California with a number of other states who have acted similarly. States such as Arkansas Kentucky, Ohio, Massachusetts, Hawaii, and Michigan have all narrow their murder statute in the similar way that 1437 proposes. Additionally, 1437 establishes a process for resentencing for those who were charged with felony murder in the most egregious type of ways. And in the long run, and this where it's germane to apropos, that will save millions of dollars. Well in the short run, if we fix the murder statute, then we will not be, in the future, putting people in for life without parole who did not have this more direct role in a crime. But in it for those who may possibly be resentenced, if you are incarcerated at age 20 under this old policy and you live to 70 in our state facility, which is currently at about 80,000 a year. The cost for that one individual is 4 million. So that does not include the costs for medical care for the aging population and our corrections budget medical care costs alone went up by 2 billion in the last four years. So with that I would like my witnesses and support. I have Jack Wilson who's the SF Public Defender and Kate Chatfield from Restore Justice, California. Thank you, witnesses and supporters. Good morning. My name is Jacque Wilson and I'm deputy public defender with the San Francisco Public Defenders Office. This is my father Mack Wilson and he's a retired airforce sergeant. He served in Vietnam two tours of duty with distinction. He's my hero and my inspiration. We are here because my younger brother is charged with felony murder. This is true, even though my brother did not kill anyone, nor attempt to kill anyone,nor intend to kill anyone. He wasn't even present at the scene. But under the felony murder rule none of that matters. SB 1437 does not abolish the felony murder rule. It merely limits its application. And my family is not the only family which has been devastated by this antiquated practice. The felony murder rule has taken the heaviest toll on young people,women, and people of color. This toll can only be measured in heartbreak. My 83 year olds father's last wish is to be able to hug his son again. My niece, her wish is to be reunited with her father who is not a killer. It costs over $80,000 annually to incarcerate a person. This bill would save taxpayers millions. Further, effective lawyers leave no stone unturned when litigating accomplice liability for felony murder cases. That means that cases are in the trial court foryears prior to trial. This can cost the courts and counties hundreds and thousands of dollars per defendant. The people we are talking about are not murderers despite their label. They are our sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, friends andcommunity members. Over 35 years ago, the California Supreme Court called the felony murder rule barbaric, and asked this Legislature to fix it. You all have the power to make that change. We urge you to support SB 1437. Thank you. Thank you. Additional witnesses in support. Yes, thank you. My name is Kate Chatfield. I'm the policy director for Restore Justice. SB 1437 is a rule of individual responsibility. It is a bedrock principle of the law and a fairness, that a person should be punished for his or her actions according to his or her own level of individual responsibility,and not for the actions of another. Life sentences for non-perpetrators of the fatal act, not only fails to place blame squarely where it belongs, but it approaches cruel and unusual punishment. And when there is an unjust law, it needs to be addressed. We believe that Senate Bill 1437 will not only address an unjust law,but we agree with the analysis that it will result in major long term cost savings to the state. To the extent that they are near term expenses associated with some number of people who would be eligible for re-sentencing, we are of course, the author, and our organization and other co-sponsors are will to work together, and with any opposition, to significantly reduce the fiscal impact on the courts of re-sentencing. Thank you. Additional witnesses in support?Good morning, Andrea Perry with Californians for Safety and Justice. We are co-sponsors of this legislation and really hope for an aye vote, thank you. Thank you. Hi, Isabella Duthridge on behalf of Advocates for Justice, support SB 1437. Ignacio Hernandez on behalf of the California Attorneys for Criminal Justice, in support. My name is Dennis Flynn. And I'm a founder and lead advocate for Cares for Youth, a statewide organization to reform extreme senses for youth. And also the parent, I have a young daughter these are two of my daughters. So one's 15 and one's 2 in this picture. My oldest daughter have served 22 years of a 33 year to life sentence under the felony murder role, not present. Or planned anything in terms of a murder. And one of the people that was actually there was out in five years. Chair and members, Kevin Baker with American Civil Liberties Union of California, also in support. Thank you, additional witnesses in support? Witnesses in opposition, please come forward. Finance? No file. No file, comments or questions from Committee? Senator Beall?Just a couple questions, so when we looked at the staff estimate. And it talks about the cost, and then the cost savings. When I look at the cost and the cost savings, I was looking at, there was 14,473 inmates. Serving a term for first degree murder. And 7,299 serving for second degree murder. Then it says, if you take 10% would be filing petitions for re-sentencing and so forth. It costs some money, it costs $7 million. But if we took 2,177 people times $90,000 a year, that's almost $200 million. So I think, am I right? Yes. Okay, so then you might look at the future looking down the road. That's just one year. That's 195, 200 million a year. So if you look at it over five years, that's $1 billion. So, if we can look at it more from a stand point of what happens after this, then the other question I have is there's some, I know this is true because I visited many prisons, I visited the women's prison in Chowchilla. There's some people that are tried as adults,and they were convicted under this statute, and they weren't involved directly in the murder. But they were tried as adults as young as 15 years old. Has anybody researched how many people were convicted under the age of an adult but convicted under the statute?Has that been researched at all? Because I ran into several of them at the women's prison. As you know Senator Beall, we're actually working on legislation to address the minor issue, but if you have any-There's a cost on this bill. Right, right. And I'm sorry, I don't have numbers on those who were sentenced under this penal code section 189 as minors. But I can tell you that that number is significant. And that's who were as young as 14, perhaps, who were sentenced as-I saw one that was 15 when I was there. So are you saying 14?And hopefully that will be addressed. Yes. Okay, thank you. Thank you. That's the only question I have, I just want to point those things out. Any additional questions? Welcome sir, it's great to have you here and thank you for your service. Senator Skinner, would you like to close. I think the witnesses were quite articulate about the need for this, and I think that while this is the Approps Committee, and it's appropriate to think about it in terms of what the financial implications are, both for savings for the future and then also of course the possible cost of re-sentencing. I think that the real way we need to look at this is that we are our charging for crimes and our sentencing for crimes, should be proportionate to the persons culpability to the crime. And I think as was mentioned, the California Supreme Court's own indication that our lack of appropriately limiting our murder statue has had a very, the result has been a very barbaric practice. So, as was said,we are not eliminating felony murder. There will still be clearly, the ability to charge murder for those who intentionally committed a homicide, for those who planned a homicide, for those who paid for a homicide, for any number of more direct and intentional roles. And there still remains on our books. Accomplice to murder, accessory to murder,all of those other things stand on the books. It is purely that this bill, SB 1437. Would make sure that our felony murder charge was brought for those people culpable for that charge. And I ask for your consideration. Thank you, Senator Skinner, for your work on this issue. Clearly this, again, reminds me of the whole tough on crime era, where we should have always been smarter on crime. Thank you for your work on this issue. Without objection, we move this item to the suspense calendar. And I think we are, I'm not sure if we're taking amendments in the Committee or not. But if there are co-authors who want to be added on, we're happy to do so. Absolutely, can you add me please?Yes, thank you. We will discuss that during the suspense file process, thank you. 