All right, I would like to begin our Assembly Banking Committee for Monday, June 25th. I believe we do have quorum, we're short one? We're short one of quorum so we will start our Committee hearing as a sub until we have an additional member. We do have a sign in list and we will begin with Senator Glazer for SB 1235. We didn't put any time limits on it, but I will ask for brevity in comments that are made. And so with that I will have you begin, Senator. Thank you. Thank you, Chair Limon. Senate Bill 1235 would give to small business owners many of the same protections that our country's truth in lending laws have given consumer borrowers for more than half a century. This bill would require lenders and finance companies to provide clear and consistent disclosure to small business owners when they offer then financing when they close a deal. This information would help small business owners understand the cost and consequences of the financing options available to them in the rapidly evolving commercial lending market. Until now, our truth in lending laws have only applied to only to consumer finance. Business owners were left to fend for themselves on the theory that they were sophisticated merchants, who understood the world of finance. Increasingly however, that is no longer true. Today's small business owners are often immigrant entrepreneurs, struggling to get their enterprises off the ground, with little knowledge of the finance industry. Traditional banks meanwhile are no longer are interested in making smaller loans. Instead, that space is being filled by innovative lenders offering an array of financial options. This new online lending industry is bringing capital to people who badly need it. But there are abuses. This bill offers a modest measure, disclosure, to help level the playing field for small business owners. It would make California a leader in placing the interests of small business owners on par with the big players in the financial industry. Now, if you borrowed money for a house or a car, or simply taken out a personal loan or used a credit card, you've seen the kind of disclosures that this bill would require. They tell you how much you're borrowing, all the fees you'll be paying, how long will it take you to repay the loan, and the annual annualized interest rate. The lenders know all this information already. Some of them even disclose it in the financial market when they package their small business loans and sell them as securities. All we're asking is that they disclose the same information to their customers. What is good for Wall Street should be good now for Main Street. Now this bill have undergone extensive changes since I first introduced it in February. We've taken suggestions from many of the players in this industry and from most of the opponents. That will never satisfy everyone. Many of the companies that lend to small business, simply do not want to disclose the terms of their loans to their customers. And many customer finance advocates want this bill to precisely mirror the laws that govern consumer lending. Even if that might not be practical for the business lending market. Let me finish up. I think we've struck the right balance in this bill requires clear, consistent disclosure that does not restrict the kind of financing that lenders can offer, and will not lead to any loss of access to capital in the small business world. With me today are Robin Black, representing the California Small Business Association. And Caton Hanson, who is a cofounder of nav.com, a company that helps small business owners navigate the tricky, new online lending marketplace. Thank you, Chair Limon and Members of the Committee for allowing me to share my support of this bill. My name is Caton Hanson, cofounder and chief legal compliance officer at nav.com. NAV is a small business credit-financed platform used by more than 370,000 business owners in United States including 35,000 in State of California. I'm speaking to you today, because I believe this bills is important step towards helping small business borrowers more easily compare sources of capital. Which ultimately means more successful business in California. Consider the impact this legislation can have. Small business employs nearly half of all of California State's employees. But according to the US Department of Labor, 100,000 California small businesses close each year. And the data show a top reason these businesses fail is due to poor credit arrangements. I cofounded now for the very reason of bringing transparency and efficiency to business financing credit. I come from a small business family. My grandfather started a pool splotching company in Southern California in 1948. My cousin runs the same business today. Growing up I watched my father work a full time job, and run a small business on the side. As a small business owner of two businesses prior to NAV, I'm intimately aware of the help this bill would provide small business owners. I've seen their struggle on a daily basis, and have been in their shoes. I know what it's like to feel like the successes of your business hang on whether you have the right financing or not. Transparency and efficiency are essential in the business lending world. If you haven't experienced it, it's easy to say the borrower will figure it out. They know what they're doing. The reality is that small business owners are not financial experts. These are not Fortune 500 companies we are talking about. In fact, 75% of all small businesses employ one or fewer people. These are businesses without a finance department. Running a business and having to perform finance, HR, sales, product development is extremely taxing. Business owners can't spend hours and hours trying to decide for loan disclosure. That's why an annualized cost of capital needs to be a part of this legislation. It's the best method we have to create a quick apples to apples cost comparison. We've had this protection for consumers for years. It's already settled law. The bill's opposition claim an annualized cost of capital will confuse borrowers. The fact is that an annualized rate, which includes all costs, will simply reveal how expensive some of these products can be. If this forces them to explain the difference between short-term versus long-term capital and the effect that has on an annualized rate, then so be it. It's better than the current system that puts all the burden on the small business owner. We've already agreed that using an annualized rate is the best way for consumers to compare loans why should it be different for small business owners? Most reputable business lenders already provide an annualized rate, because they know it's the best way for a borrower to compare loans and terms. Alternative lenders such as Cabbage, On Deck, and Smart Biz Loans are using tools such as a smart box to provide necessary disclosures. They know it is the right thing to do. This bill is just a way to standardize and require this across the industry, so that the few bad apples can't continue to deceive business owners. This bill isn't about regulating the cost of business loans or trying to harm business lenders, which we wouldn't support. There are legitimate times when a triple digit annualized rate is a smart decision for a business owner, but the business owner deserves to have a clear way of comparing products and knowing how much it's going to cost them. If the terms are transparent and the business owner makes a bad decision, then it's on them. To claim educating a small business owner on the true cost of capital is a harm to them is simply ridiculous. Unlike the opponents, we have nothing to gain by passing this bill. We just know it's the right thing to do. We also believe it can become a model for the entire country, and will positively impact millions of business owners, their families and communities. On behalf of the 100 team members at NAV along with our 35,000 small business customers in the State of California, I urge you to pass the bill. Thank you. I will ask for a quorum, if we can just, before we finish up, if we can just call a quorum. Limon? Here. Chen, Acosta? Here. Burke? Gabriel? Here. Gloria? Gonzalez-Fletcher? Present. Grayson? Here. Steinorth? Here. Stone? Weber? Here. Thank you. We'll have you proceed. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, Members of the Committee. Robin Black, on behalf of the California Small Business Association. We are a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization representing small business in California. Many of you were at our luncheon last week with your honorees. We love small business. We celebrate small business. And we really want to thank the Senator for bringing this bill forward. As all of you know, access to capital is the most important challenge facing small business in California, and startup businesses in particular in California. As has already been stated, that transparency that this bill would provide for small businesses looking for that kind of capital, especially in the new markets online, is something that's really important. I won't repeat everything that's already been said, but informing the consumers, giving them the transparency that is already there for consumer loans in California. Providing it for small businesses, many of whom are not as sophisticated in the finance and laws and the understanding what the true cost of a loan or borrowing money can be. This will go a long ways to help those individuals. So on behalf of the California Small Business Association, we thank you for your time and we urge your aye vote. Thanks, Robin. Thank you. Any opposition? Support. Support, sorry, we'll start with support. If you could please state your name and Association. Alex Alanis on behalf of the Small Business Finance Association in support of the bill. Any additional support? All right, those in opposition. Good afternoon, Madam Chair, Members of the Committee. My name is Ann Patterson. I'm a partner at Orrick, Herrington and Sutcliffe, and outside counsel for the Innovative Lending Platform Association. I feel like I'm in Theater in the Round here. We're here, regretfully, in opposition to SB 1235, because of the inclusion of the untested new metric, the ACC that is in the bill. The ILPA is the leading trade Association for small business lending and service companies. And our members include OnDeck Capital, Kabbage, and The Business Backer. I want to start by making it clear that we do not oppose SB 1235's objective here, and its attempts to create disclosures. We absolutely support transparency, and actually, as the witness from NAV mentioned, all members of the ILPA already provide borrowers with a comprehensive disclosure. It's called the Smartbox, looks a little bit like the Schumer box, or for those of you more familiar with Cheerios, the nutritional label on the back of that. We spent about 18 months developing the Smartbox and worked in consultation with small businesses to identify the metrics that were most meaningful to them when they were trying to compare between financial products. And then you can see those metrics reflected here. We have total cost of capital at the top, which usually ranked as one of the highest and most meaningful for folks. We disclose APR, annual percentage rate, average monthly payment, cents on dollar, and whether there are any prepayment penalties. So I'm sure you probably can't see this from here. I'm happy to provide over our copies if people would like to see it more closely. So we did make these disclosures voluntarily because we want our small business customers to begin forms so they can pick the right financing product for their use case. And we do believe, as the author and the other witnesses that transparency is critical to that. But we strongly oppose SB 1235's inclusion of this untested new metric, the ACC or EACC, because we believe that it will frustrate rather than facilitate an apples to apples comparison across products. And heres why, let me find my little card. As you can see, APR and ACC look a lot alike. They're both percentages, which is going to cause confusion for borrowers. And these two here, APR and ACC, are for the exact same loan, one six-month $50,000 loan with the exact same interest and fees. As you can see APR 33.6, ACC 22.63. One's looking a lot higher than the other for the exact same loan with the same costs. So this is basically, ACC is just like APR but smaller. That to us is sort of like introducing a new food measurement. For example, where I can look at the Cinnabon and say, it doesn't have 900 calories any more, it has 600 calories. And I think just like that would drive people to make bad food decisions, this ACC is going to potentially mislead borrowers into choosing potentially more expensive products because they're going to conflate APR and ACC. And the danger's going to occur here because borrowers are going to be comparing different products, one quoted with APR, and one ACC. Lots of things are still going to be quoting the APR. The Schumer box and your credit card is still going to have APR. And I can tell you that small business customers are going to confuse them when they're looking at one that says APR 33, the one that says this and it's just lower. It's like buying the Cinnabon, right?You're going to pick the one that looks lower even though, in fact, it's not the actually less expensive product. It's just a different metric entirely. So the problem is going to, I think, not go away over time with this because we are going to continue to live in an ecosystem where APR remains the prominent metric. So people are going to be trying, really doing apples to oranges comparisons between APR and ACC. And for us this isn't just actually speculation when we'd spent, I think I mentioned we did a lot of homework when we developed Smartbox over 18 months. And one of the things we did is actually considered putting a second percentage metric, the AIR, into the Smartbox so it would have had one more percentage here. And when we shared that with small business customers, it immediately caused confusion. They're like, which one's the real one?Which one is the right one? And so it just led to a ton of questions. And so we ultimately said, only one percentage based metric on this, because it's just going to confuse people. And so I think the concern for us is that we're either now in a position as the ILPA of having to drop APR entirely and replace it with this new metric, which is untested from our perspective. I don't know anyone who's ever used it. I don't know if there've been any studies on whether or not it actually kind of works over time. So we either can replace it, or we can go back to a situation where we are going to have to have two percentages on the smart box again. Which we know, based on our own information, does cause confusion for people. So in closing, we support the concept here, we believe in transparency and disclosure. But we are very concerned that this metric will be confusing for people. I'm happy to answer any questions, thank you. Thank you, Chair Limon and Committee Members, thank you for the opportunity to present testimony today regarding SB 1235. My name is Kate Fisher, and I am here today on behalf of the Commercial Finance Coalition. A group of responsible finance companies that provide capital to small and medium-sized businesses through innovative methods. We support California's efforts to provide business financing disclosures. CFC members already disclose the cost of financing, and welcome all of the disclosure requirements of SB-1235, except for one. That is the estimated annualized cost of capital disclosure. For clarity, we do not oppose disclosure. Instead, we're advocating for an effective and accurate disclosure. Our concern is that requiring any annualized percentage for financing that is not alone will mischaracterize the underlying transaction. Senator Glazer's bill recognizes that requiring an estimated annualized cost of capital disclosure does not make sense for other non-loan products, such as commercial leasing or invoice factoring. Commercial leasing is completely exempt from SB 1235, and invoice factoring is exempt from the annualized cost of capital disclosure. That is because commercial leasing and invoice factoring are not loans. But SB 1235 proposes to require an annualized cost of capital disclosure for future receivables factoring, also not a loan, this is illogical. Future receivables factoring is fundamentally different from a loan. The business pays only a percentage of its receivables. For example, when wildfires swept across California last fall, a business that was damaged and could not operate would owe nothing. Because the transaction is not alone, any APR or annualized cost of capital disclosure would only confuse and mislead small business owners. Im very optimistic that California can lead the way in providing business with disclosures that are helpful and not misleading. For example, the disclosure in SB 1235 that would require the disclosure of total dollar cost of financing, which is currently in the bill in section 22802B3, thank you. Thank you, any other witnesses in opposition, please state your name and Association. All right, hearing or seeing none. Members, we will turn it over to you, any questions or thoughts, Assemblymember Grayson. Thank you, Madam Chair. I was hearing the testimony about APR versus ACC, and it was almost like, it sounded like it was apples and oranges, right, compared between the two. So as long as the consumer, or in this particular case, the business owner that was seeking a commercial loan, was aware that they were apples and oranges. Then as long as they were aligning the apples together or the oranges together, and comparing the right rates, then there wouldn't be confusion, is that right?I think that if people got past the similarities between them and actually sort of dug in, they could potentially say, okay, ACC is basically computed completely differently, and is designed to be a different metric. I think the hard part is when you just see APR, ACC, and you see rates, people are making quick decisions. And I think they're going to see 36%, 23%, and just go with that. One of the other things that I think that's problematic here is that the underlying differences, I won't even begin to try to explain. Because trying to say why APR is computed one way and why ACC is computed the other way is going to be complicated and take up a lot of time on the phone.  Where people try to understand which one's the real one that they're supposed to be looking at. Sure, so if we were comparing products, whether that product from three different lenders was using APR, then I would have a fair comparison between them. Apples to apples. So if I had all three providers also providing an ACC and they were being compared strictly amongst just ACC, that would be a fair comparison. It would be, and I think the challenge that they will have in doing straight-up, real time, apples to apples is going to be that credit cards will never be using an ACC. They're off doing their TLA program with a Schumer box, and they're going to continue to use APR. A lot of small businesses rely on that, so they're going to have an orange and an apple, maybe a couple of apples, maybe a pear. No, just apples and oranges, and they're going to have to try to figure it out. So I don't think there's every going to be kind of a true. So Madam Chair, if I may, and I don't want to take up too much time and I know I have other members here that may have concerns or questions. If I may to the author ask a question of, what was the motivation to depart from an APR and come up with this new, untested ACC?Thank you for the question, although I wouldn't agree with the untested part. But originally in my bill, I did have APR, and opponents came in and said, we don't want you to have APR. Because APR changes with every payment you make, it changes the number. And they said, it creates legal vulnerability for us to use APR. And I said, okay, the purpose here is not to curtail small business lending, we need that capital out there. The only issue I want is disclosure, and I don't want to create legal liability. So I said, okay, because APR changes with every payment let's come up with another metric that's not a new metric. But a metric in the world of business that says, let's take a snapshot in time of what that would cost over the course of a year. And that's annualized cost of capital, ACC. Its' not based on whether you make more payments this month or less payments next month. It's one snapshot, thereby providing a fair estimate without legal vulnerability, and a very simple standard, and that's where ACC has come from. So you said without legal vulnerability, because I know that's been one of the concerns of ACC. Is that you could throw a figure out there, and it actually not be the exact figure, that creates liability on the lender's part. What have you done to be able to mitigate that liability?In the bill, it's says an estimate, it says an estimated annualized cost of capital, so that's the required disclosure. And that is something that I think provides appropriate legal protection for any lender who's providing that capital in that proposal too. So within their disclosure, you're saying, if you put estimate on there, then that would help mitigate-I certainly haven't heard any criticism on those terms, in regard to ACC. All right, thank you. Thank you. Any other questions or thoughts, Vice Chair Chen?Thank you Madam Chair. I just wanted to say that as a Republican, one thing that is always a concern is government overreach. This bill doesn't do that. In my opinion, this is a bill which is helpful for the lender, it's helpful for the consumer. It's information that is helpful and which will prevent them from making decisions that will be in financial duress for them in the future. So I appreciate you bringing this bill forward, so with that said, I'd be happy to move the bill. And we have-So I was just curious for the opponents of the bill. If you're opposed to ACC and you're opposed to APR, is there a metric that you would recommend and suggest?Well, all of the members of IPA do disclose on APR now, so we're not opposed to APR. I think there were people in the let them speak. Yeah, thank you. The total dollar cost of financing, which is not a percentage, but tells the small business owner, this is how much the money will cost, that is the best metric. And particularly because the goal is to provide a measurement that works across different products.  So that measurement works whether it's a loan or a sale. And is that something that's already required to be disclosed?No, not by law, it is required to be disclosed by contracts so that the customer understands what they're, what kind of financing they're getting. And the members of the group I represent do provide disclosures like that. I would say that when we developed the smart box and did a survey of small businesses as a part of that, total cost of capital was something, dollars in, dollars out, at the end of the day, that is what is most meaningful to them. I'm not suggesting analyzed metric or whatever, the problem with analyzed metrics generally in that the Shorter the term of the loan, it just look a lot and it it just starts to fall apart under a year. But to the point that you made that Tollboss Capital is something business owners say is the metric, and it's why it's at the top of our smart box. Assemblymember Weber. Just wanted to get some clarity. Now, this smart box that you have, how long have you had this smart box? I mean, is this something that small businesses have access to in half a year, or is it something new?We launched it in June of 2016, so it's been around for two years. Okay, but it's not required. It is not. It's a voluntary industry model. Anybody who joins the ILPA must disclose it as part of that membership. So you have some of the larger lenders like On Deck and Cabbage using it, but it is not mandatory. It is not mandated by any government. Okay, so, therefore, it's kind of an uneven thing in terms of who has access to it, and whether or not people know what the real cost of their loans are. Yes, there is no mandate to make these disclosures, that's correct. Okay, and the industry initially was opposed to APR, and I assume they still are, I would imagine, there's been some revelation-Thank you. The financing companies that don't offer loans but offer a type of factoring program, they are opposed to any type of annualized metric, because those types of transactions don't have a term. The business only pays a percentage of its revenue as that revenue is created. So the transaction will take as long as it takes, as long as it takes the business to generate the revenue that they will then deliver to the company. Okay, and I assume that any new system that you come up with would be untested. I mean that's the nature of something new. If it was not it would be old rather than being something new. So I'm not necessarily swayed by the untested element of it. I think there needs to be some transparency. I was surprised that there wasn't that much transparency in terms of commercial loans. I just assumed everybody had transparency, and knew what a loan cost. And so I found it rather incredible that it didn't happen. I'm not sure I'm convinced that ACC is the best thing, but I haven't heard anybody tell me anything else. I know people don't like APR very much, but I've not heard that ACC is so horrible. I'm probably going to support this as it goes forward with hopes that whatever problem there is, you guys will work it out before it gets to the floor. I'm not sure, but I'll vote for it on the floor. But I do want to give life to this so the conversation can continue because I think it is very important especially for small businesses. So I'll second the motion that was made. Thank you, Assemblymember Weber. And I think we have Assemblymember Acosta and Assemblymember Gabriel. Thank you very much. I kind of appreciate this course today, I appreciate Senator Glazer coming by and we having some significant conversations around this. It is a complicated issue when you're talking about introducing a new metric by which consumers, I know were calling them business owners but there still people and they still have credit cards and auto loans and mortgages. And all these things are calculated somewhat differently so, I think there is an opportunity here for more disclosure. I share my colleague from San Diego's sympathy that this may not be the best answer, because these things are all calculated differently, whether it is a traditional factoring, whether it is future receivables. My concern has been that, as a consumer and a small business owner because they're still individuals, they're still people, that you're on one side of the fence, and you're getting a credit card offer or a small business loan offer from one entity on your credit card. It popped up on my screen from one of my bank statements the other day. And then over on this side, we're doing something entirely different, and I'm concerned that there will be confusion there. I think you have made attempts to try to address this, I think that we need good disclosure in this realm. Can you tell me, just for the record, the sunset date on this? We have a sunset of what?Four years. Four years, so I'm not thrilled with no disclosure, not sure this is 100% the way to go, but I think that, given the fact that APR doesn't work, ACC may not work, we got to try something. You seem to be very interested in making something work, so I'd really encourage you to work with the opposition to try to fix things to their liking and to really try to find something that small business owners can sink their teeth into. Maybe they're going to invent something new here that's going to carry throughout the rest of the country, I don't know. I'm not 100% comfortable with the discrepancies that small business owners are going to be finding themselves but it's a step. And so I'm going to be taking a look at this, I may lay off at this moment. But I'm leaning toward supporting your bill today just so we can continue to work on this, but I'm reserving judgement on the floor for what the final product is. Thank you. Assemblymember Gabriel. And then Assemblymember Gloria. Yeah, I just wanted to associate myself with the comments of my colleagues from San Diego. I appreciate, Senator Glazer, your effort to do this and bring transparency into the space. I think that's a very worthwhile objective. I'm inclined to support you today to continue the conversation. But I'm going to Reserve judgement on the floor, just to help myself understand this a little bit better, but very much appreciate what you're trying to do here and thank you for bringing this bill forward. Thank you. Thank you, Madame Chair, and Senator, thank you for the bill today. I'm reading it furiously after being substituted in just a few hours ago. It's all right, that's why they pay us the medium sized bucks, right? I know you bring a common sense approach to your legislating. I was struggling with the conversation in terms of different metrics, I think I heard that part of it. Forgive me if I missed the portion when you addressed one of the other things in my quick read of this. What's somewhat troubling to me is the fourth page of the Committee analysis talking about the ability or lack thereof to provide oversight or enforcement on this. It would seem to me then if we're looking out for small businesses, we'd have to have some way of trying to actually enforce what you're trying to do with this bill. It's difficult for me to vote for something that says that what it says here in terms of having it's either silent or it's impossible to a hold folks accountable, so on and so forth. Can you speak to that and why the bill is in it's current state with these comments?Absolutely, thank you Assemblymember. There are some that we'd like to regulate. And in our conversations about it, that we'd rather start with the step of disclosure and not licensing and not regulation. And the hope would be that the marketplace could act appropriately, disclose appropriately, and that can be the end of it. But under current law, if you have a contract dispute, you have the same remedies under this bill as proposed as you would in any other circumstance that you have today. And our public law enforcement officers have that same ability, if they see violations, to engage as appropriate. So the same remedies that exist today are in place, with the exception of regulation. And it was my view that, because you get folks from all sides on these kinds of things. And it's a new engagement because it is the Wild West today. There is no requirement. We heard from witnesses that she does this and they do that. There is no requirements anywhere in this space, in California or across the country. And so it was in that context that my feeling was, and we took a lot of amendments to narrow this bill and I can go through those. The first step should be a simple disclosure mechanism with a sunset, and we can evaluate it as it goes. I don't want to curtail the lending market whatsoever. But if we have bad actors that continue to not follow those rules then I'm very open to trying to see what else is required. And that's why we've taken the small step today that you see in front of you. So this is not a matter of this will be addressed in a future Committee or before it comes to the floor. It is the intent to leave it sort of open, at least at this point. Again, given the various players in this space, that the smaller step to me would seem to be the more appropriate step. No, it is not my intention to put a new regulatory framework under this bill. I think that makes it more difficult. And listen, if we didn't have the opposition to APR from the start we might be in a different place today. But I've tried to accommodate opposition, and that's why you have the narrowness of this bill before you. Okay, thank you. Assemblymember Gonzalez Fletcher. And obviously I don't know what the opposition was to APR. All of this is new to me, I'm fairly new to this Committee. But I am concerned with kind of I don't want to say unsophisticated, but you know my father has had small businesses. And has made determinations whether he puts something on a credit card versus takes out some sort of loan. Is the ACC always going to be smaller than the APR? I really know nothing about these things, so. It depends on the duration. It's meant to say over 12 months. In other words there's a lot of loans, and this part of the problem in that space. As I say you, need a $1,000 for a pizza oven repair and I say to you listen, I'll give you $1,000, it'll cost you $200. And this is what the opposition has said, small business people want to know what that total cost. Well it's $1,200 to get $1,000 now, and you have to pay it back when? Well if you have to pay it back in 90 days, that interest rate that you're paying is going to be a lot higher than you can pay it back in a year. Or if you paid it back based on taking a penny out of every credit card transaction. I mean, so when these lenders come in they can offer you this wide array of ways in which it's not going to cost you anything to your dad, and that's been the challenge. The issue of the annualized cost of capital is to say whether you take that loan for 90 days or for two years. You have an annualized cost as if it was for 12 months. And more importantly than knowing how much it's going to cost you, you can shop the next vendor and the next financier, and have an apples to apples to compare it to. Because one vendor may say pay me in six months, another one will say well 18 months. Well, what's the difference? And so that annualized cost is a way to have that one standard review. And I did do a chart here to give you a sense of these are the standards required by the bill. And at the bottom of it it says, what's the annualized cost of capital? You have a way of reviewing that. This chart is based on $150,000 one time, over the period of time. And so each of these steps disclosed, and then this is the last one that the bill that's being debated today. What's that annualized cost if you paid it over 12 months? This is a 15 month example. But this is what it would be over 12, and you can compare it from person to person or lender to lender. As long as the product you're getting is all from. I think what I'm struggling with is you're making an assumption that they're looking just at this one product, right?  This online product and you're not thinking through like well, I have space on this credit card, I have the ability. And if we're not using then the same percentage then it's biased to this, because you're going to get a lower percentage. That's what I'm concerned. Does that make sense?Yes, so now let me explain. I feel really ignorant in space, I have to tell you. No, no and listen. Welcome to the world of small business lending, okay?Right. Even us have struggled with it. So this is an example based on a $150,000 one-time loan paid off over, is it about three years, okay? Now, here's another example of the $150,000. But now it's paid off, let's see here. A little over a year. Right, a little over a year. And it comes from money out of your, let's see, it says. Let's see. Okay, this is the 15-month loan, one-time. This is money out of your cash register over a much longer period of time. And you can see how these charts then work out. Under this one they're both $150.000. This is the total cost of all your payments. This is $170.000, that's $179.000. Here's your financing cost. Under this example, it's $20.000, on this example it's $29.000. Here's how much you paid everyday. If what's most sensitive to your dad was how much he had to put out everyday. This one is $370, that one is $163. And so you work down this chart and then you say, well, what if I have to pay this over one year? The apples and apples. This is a 10% cost and that one's a 6% cost. But you can get a sense of the complexity of these just two different examples. A flat loan versus something that you're going to pay off every day out of your cash register, and this is the dilemma that they all face. How do you create the apples to apples with these different products?And this shows you that you can have different products with different loan amounts and different durations. But the one thing that you can compare the apples to is the annualized cost of capital in both charts. They're never going to give you an APR and an ACC. They're going to just show you the, whatever the law requires is what they're going to provide. And this is a way for you to cross comparison shop that doesn't exist today. Okay. So I'm sorry. So I get how you can compare these two. And I applaud what you're trying to do, I think this is good. My concern is, how do you compare this to my business credit card, or something that's giving me just an APR?That's a consumer loan, and that is-But small businesses use credit in a variety of way, I mean I guess you can say loan. But I mean especially small businesses use a variety. I'm just worried about that are we, this makes it very good for what you are trying to do, but that's not the only way people borrow money to-Right, and the challenge is that the credit card APR, it's based on how much you pay and when. In other words, that's just an estimate. But it's a changing estimate every month. If you decide to only pay so much into principal, that's going to change that number. And so that's the dilemma of even looking at that financial instrument of, if I put this on my credit card versus take out a business loan. It's a very challenging thing for anyone to understand, and that's why I go back to the simplicity is the annual cost, not an APR that fluctuates. And obviously some in the industry say we love it, and some say they hate it and wanted it changed in the bill. And that will always remain that dilemma, buyer beware, lender beware. We're just trying that give that small business owner one additional tool. And that's not, how much is the money going to costs me, or how much do I pay every day? What would this cost if I had it for 12 months?Why wouldn't you have both?Well we do, the bill does require that all of these elements be provided. No, APR and ACC, why wouldn't you have both?Well first we had the concern of, on APR, about the legal jeopardy of that number fluctuating and how can you have it be a fair estimate. How do they do it on credit cards? I get a credit card or I'm applying for a credit card and it tells me this is the APR and that's in first. There's about a stack of federal regulation this high that went into, that high plus more, that have gone into the whole the determination of APR. And when you say it's been around a long time, it has been hotly debated on the federal level. And so you have this body of information that's now there that guides companies in how they do it and how they calculate it. So these companies could do that?They could do that today, most of them don't. I'm happy to hear one that does provide it, but again, it's the wild west. So why wouldn't we want both? I mean, there's a function to do it, and then it could better cross compare between different products. I'm into more disclosure, not less. And I'm not setting you up, I have no idea. I'm totally confused on trying to do the right thing in this bill. Yeah, well look, I'm open minded. For me, the fundamental issue is how do we provide an appropriate level of disclosure to give that small business person a fighting chance in the lending market? I hadn't thought about whether providing both, and whether that would be helpful or less helpful. I'm open minded to it, I've been trying to simplify this. because there's been a lot of efforts to complicate it, and so I hadn't gone in that direction. But I'm still open minded about whether that would be more helpful or less. Well I would say, for a lot of small businesses. And I think about small businesses in my community where you have a lot of non-English speakers, a lot of not native speakers. Being able to actually look at two completely different products. One that's maybe not supposed to be used for small business loans, but is a credit card versus this. That to line up the letters, regardless of how you get to that number and what it means. But to line up the letters and try to get to some comparison would be helpful. Rather than assuming a level of knowledge I think that, even if it was in their home language probably. I mean it's beyond me, and I consider myself slightly educated.  But definitely with folks who are new to this country and who are trying to figure this all out, I'm a little concerned, that's all. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Assemblymember Steinorth. First, I'd like to just like to say I think this is very clever. I've been in business for over 20 years and my business is helping local and small businesses grow. I've been doing that successfully, I've probably helped over 10,000 businesses be successful. And the single greatest reason for their failure is under-capitalization, period, that's it. And so short-term versus longer term access to capital, I believe that your way of really trying to add the transparency to the short-term access to capital. So people have a clear understanding of what it's going to cost their business, it's going to be very useful for their success. So I'll be voting yes on this bill, thank you. Thank you, appreciate it. Thank you. Senator, you and I have had multiple conversations about this. And I think the analysis does express some concern with the ability to enforce. Particularly because enforcement is also a way to ensure that your objective is met. It's not just an enforcement mechanism, but it's also about the objective. But we've also had conversations about the direction of the bill. And knowing how important it is for any consumer to have the information they need to make the best decisions. What I'm hearing is that, at this point, APR you're lucky if you have it. Some do, some don't, it's not a standardization. And so as I listen to colleagues bring concerns forward about how do you compare all of your options, not just your online lending, but all of your options. I also understand that currently that can't exist because if they, right now today, if they were to try to go to an online loan or a cash advance. And also compare credit cards, they don't have the mechanism to look at it apples to apples. I appreciate that this is, at least for the moment, a temporary solution. It has a four year sunset so that we can understand. I still continue to have concerns about how the objective is going to be met. How we know that, whether it's ACC or something else, is going to be met. And how we're ensuring that, over the next four years, potentially all the customers of this product see the same thing. I'm not sure, but there are certain themes that you have brought forward. Themes that I have been very sensitive to this year in the world of banking and finance. And those include the importance for transparency, for disclosure, and for people to understand the true cost of a loan. I understand how hard it is for these things or these elements to be in place with a lot of products. And for those reasons, I am going to give you an aye vote in good faith that we can try to get there. But I will note that there are still some concerns, and I'm happy to be part of any kind of conversation to make sure that the objective you're trying to get to is one that is able to be met.  And I know how hard this work is, and with that, if there are no other comments, I think we will have you close and then we'll take a vote. Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair and members, for this thoughtful, thorough conversation that we've had today, I appreciate it. I want to underscore again how hard we have worked. My staff, your staff, and others, to try to narrow the differences, take out leasing, take out some of the receivables issues that we can't really fit into this box. So that we could provide something that's simple and easy and understandable and transparent. I think we've gone a long ways here, I know there's more work to still be done and I look forward to that work that we can do together. We do need to protect our small business people, and it is a wild west of financing out there. And I think this bill does get us closer to that space. And I appreciate your consideration, thank you. Thank you, please call the roll. Limon? Aye. Chen? Aye. Acosta? Aye. Burke? Gloria? Not voting. Gabriel? Aye. Gonzalez-Fletcher? Not voting. Grayson? Aye. Steinorth? Aye. Stone? Weber? Aye. 