My name is Andrew Bigelow, an organizer with Silicon Valley De-Bug, and we support this bill. Andrew Wynn, Project Rebound Sacramento State, Anti-Recidivism Coalition, in strong support of this bill. Eugene Day, Anti-Recidivism Coalition, and I strongly support this bill. Susan Wolfe, volunteer with PACT, I strongly support this bill. Thank you. ...San Jose, California with PACT, I strongly support this bill, thank you. Yumi Groma, San Jose with PACT, PICO State, and I strongly support this bill. Alice Lynch, PACT, San Jose, I strongly support this bill. My name is..., I support this bill. Thank you. Beatrice, Love Not Blood Campaign, I support this bill. Colby Lenz with the California Coalition for Women Prisoners and Survived and Punished, strongly support this bill. ...with Youth Justice Coalition in strong support of this bill, thanks. Anna Billingsley, private citizen, San Francisco, in strong support of the bill. ...with Communities United for Restorative Justice in strong support. Hello, Norma Ruiz, I'm from San Francisco, California, and I strongly support this bill. Steve Rogers, Dignity Empower Now, and I support this bill. Shaddi Bendari with the Youth Justice Coalition, and I'm in strong support of this bill. Hello, my name is Caleb McGraw, and I support this bill. My name is Remundo Amundaris, representing CARAS from south Santa Clara County, and I strongly support this bill. Okay, Are there any other witnesses in support? Fine, witnesses in opposition? There's still support? Okay, witnesses in opposition? One more, one more support, name and organization. C.T. Weber, Peace and Freedom Party of California, legislative Committee chair in support. Thank you. All right, it's still morning, good morning. Good morning, Mr Chair and Members. Sean Hoffman with the California District Attorney's Association in respectful opposition to SB 1437. CDA is open to the idea of revisiting the application of the felony murder rule. To that end, we've supported Assemblymember Cooper's bill earlier this year. We've also had very, I would characterize them as very positive discussions with the author and the sponsors over the last several months. However, as currently drafted, SB 1437, we believe, is flawed in two very significant ways. First, the bill eliminates any additional liability that acknowledges that somebody lost their life in the Commission of the underlying felony. These are crimes that have victims who deserve some measure of finality at sentencing. And so to re-sentence someone to simply the sentence for the underlying felonywe believe does not appropriately acknowledge the level of criminal activity that occurred in that incident. Second, and this gets a little more technical on the re-sentencing aspect of it, but the bill is fully retroactive and applies currently to convictions obtained by plea, placing a burden on the prosecution to prove ineligibility for relief beyond a reasonable doubt. In certain cases, this will be impossible. When there's a plea, there are certain things that we don't do. The investigation, at that point, for all intents and purposes, it stops. And so if we're now in effect asking us to go back and re-try the case on the issue of eligibility, years or decades later. Perhaps without the benefit of witnesses and without even a complete investigative file and having to prove ineligibility beyond a reasonable doubt. That's a burden that we will be unable to meet, which will result in people who may not be, The intended target of this relief, having that relief extended to them, which we believe makes the community unsafe. We look forward to continuing our conversations with the sponsors and with the author. And hopefully we can get to a place where everybody's comfortable. But as the bill is drafted today, we are in strong opposition. Thank you, Mr. Chair and Members. Dawn Koepke with McHugh, Koepke, and Associates on behalf of Crime Victims United of California. We would echo the comments of the DA's, regarding the concerns. And just from a victim's perspective, I would just note concerns relative to those situations where a victim would have thought that the case had been resolved,that justice for the victim had been served, but would ultimately be pulled back into a situation where they're having to relive the crime. Questions and concerns just about process about victim involvement and engagement and how that would play out in terms of those rights afforded to victims under Mercy's Law on state law. So with that, we do look forward to continuing to work with the author. We've been in touch with her sponsors about some potential discussions and amendments and certainly appreciate the dialogue thus far. And look forward to the continued conversation, hopefully removing our opposition at some point, thank you. Thank you, are there any other witnesses in opposition?Yes, John Lovell, on behalf of the Association of Deputy District Attorneys, the California College and University Police Chiefs Association, the California Narcotic Officers Association. The Association for Los Angeles Deputy Sheriffs, The Los Angeles Police Protective League, and the Los Angeles County Professional Peace Officers Association. We'd really like to echo the comments of the prior witnesses. Our opposition is rooted in the bill as currently crafted, but we look forward to the continuing discussion among the parties. As the previous witnesses have said, we are not opposed per se to reform of the felony murder rule. But we do have issues with the way the bill is currently crafted. Thank you. Okay, thank you, yes. Cory Salzillo on behalf of the California State Sheriff's Association for the reasons stated in opposition, thank you. Tamar Talcott, Deputy District Attorney on behalf of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office in strong opposition to the current form of the bill, thank you. Thank you. Chair and Members, Jonathan Feldman, California Police Chiefs Association in opposition. Ryan Sherman with the Riverside Sheriffs' Association in opposition. Thank you, and now turn it over to Committee Members. Any questions? Has the bill been moved? No. Move the bill. Second. Okay, so I just wanted to know... Alphabetical. If the gentleman here offered some very legitimate concerns. If you would care to respond, I think one of the things he said was to re-sentence on the underlying felony doesn't really acknowledge the other victim, so maybe there's a way to kind of respond to that?Thank you, I will do so, I appreciate the question. But I want to preface it with the fact that, I will describe the amendments we have taken to address those concerns. But I want to preface it with that while regardless of how we amend this bill, the fact remains that there are people who had the same role in the commission of a felony where a death occurred who are not sentenced under felony murder. And then there are a great deal who are. So we have already an extremely unequal circumstance where the law was not applied to all. So in other words, everyone who, if we had our witness at the table who describes his son's circumstance, we could have a similar person who did not get charged that way as his son did. And we have, there's great data to that effect. So of course in what unfortunately occurs so often In our justice system is your inadequacy of representation either due to poverty or other reasons and then you might do a plea bargain in a circumstance where another person with better representation did not and yet your role in the particular crime was equal. So I just wanted to first put that in the record. Now, we have been meeting from the day I introduced, even prior to the introduction of this bill, with the DAs and with other law enforcement in order to try to get to a point where we have a reformed California's felony rule that works for everyone. And we have taken a number of amendments on the suggestion of the Das, including we clarified that certain people who would be considered the mastermind behind a crime. So just as, again, clarification, if, already under the way the bill is written, if you plan the murder, if you paid someone for that murder. A variety of other very specific rules in it that aren't just the actual murderer. You would not benefit from this change, but we also clarified that people who would be considered the mastermind would not be covered by this bill, and could still be held accountable under the felony murder rule. We also clarified that people who aid and abet are not covered in this bill and they are ineligible for re-sentencing. And finally, we flipped the burden of proof, so the prosecution no longer has to prove in the re-sentencing process. But rather, the petitioner must prove that they are eligible for relief. And that specifically addressed concerns of the DAs Association,because the original bill placed the burden on the DAs, to show that the petitioner was ineligible beyond reasonable doubt. So we are still in conversation to see what might additionally address concerns. But I think the DA's rep would describe that we have been in constant communication and have taken a number of amendments to date. And for the record, it's not giving folks a free pass. You still have to petition for re-sentencing, right? Correct, correct, and prove the, yes. And you still maintain a strike, correct, on your record? Yes, yes. So it's not, we're being intentional with, and when you talk about being tough on crime or  soft on crime, you could say this is about being intentional. Right, this is, this is aligning the charge and the sentence with your role in the crime. So you as you have accurately pointed out, Assemblymember, your underlying crime would still be a strike under the three strikes law. But if you met the conditions outlined in the bill, you would just have the ability to be resentenced for your role in that crime. Thank you. Okay, thank you, any, Mr. Kiley. A question for the opposition. What do you believe is the deterence value of the felony murder rule, either its current version or whatever reform version you'd be comfortable with?We think the value, what is the value of having any felony murder rule on the books? The deterrence value is that people are dissuaded from participating in serious, dangerous felonies. Because if someone dies in the Commission of that felony, as the law is today, anybody involved in that could conceivably receive a first degree murder charge. Any other questions, Mr. Quirk?This is a bill that's a long time coming and it's very fair. We actually have cases where the shooter is out on the street because he was willing to give evidence. Whereas the person in the car who had no idea that the murder was being committed is still in jail. I'm going to vote for this bill which restores fairness to our system, thank you. Thank you, Ms. Kamlager-Dove. You mentioned in terms of a deterrent that people will think twice, and I was just wondering if anyone at the table can share if you've heard of criminals who have said, you know, I was going to do this, but then I thought this is going to be a 687 or this is going to be a 187. I mean because, I've said this before, my husband is a defense attorney and it seems very unlikely to rare that, in hearing stories, people are actually thinking about the penal code that could be applied to them if they're doing an act. So maybe I don't have accurate information. Can you share if that happens regularly?Well I can give you one first-hand example. Some of you may know this, but two members of our family were murdered in what is still today the worst mass murder in the history of the City of Los Angeles. Little Bar on Normandy just south of Slauson was firebombed. The guy who drove the getaway car, Manuel Hernandez, at the trial, and his defense lawyer argued at the trial that, gee, all he did was buy the bucket of gasoline that was thrown into the barto burn six people to death, but he didn't know that that was the intent, that they were just trying to scare people. And had he known, he would have been liable, he wouldn't have been involved in this at all. He made that same argument and he was ultimately paroled and that was a constant refrain from him. Not withstanding the fact that six people, including Gilbert Gonzalez and Jose Metorena in our family, were murdered. Just to clarify, this bill would not have, would not allow re-sentencing for that individual, because it does not give any relief to those who aided and abetted the killing, which occurred in this case. So it's not the appropriate, I'm sure there are examples that could be provided that would make some of us uncomfortable, but that one does not fit for this particular bill. I would also like to speak to the deterrents, if I may, Chair. Regarding the deterrent's issue, research indicates that fewer than half a percent of individuals incarcerated for first or second degree murder, were even aware that the felony murder rule as applied existed before they committed their crimes. So if one is not aware of such a rule and it's extreme consequences, then how can it serve as a deterrence?And I think if we were to do a survey of those members of the Legislature who are not lawyers, most of them would not even occur that, because we have on the books, things like accessory, accomplice and various other statutes. I think most of us assume that if you had this more peripheral role in a murder, that you would be charged with that. That you would not be charged with felony murder. And for example, I am not a lawyer and until it was brought to my attention as chair of Public Safety, the existence of the way California's murder statute is applied, I was not even aware that the number of people that we have serving life sentences in California due to this rule. Ask a follow up question, I too wanted to say that I think this is a good bill. And as we recalibrate a wide and inconsistent net that we have cast as it relates to law enforcement and criminal justice reform, this is a solid step. Yes, did you?I just want to thank the author for bringing this to our attention and much needed conversation, and I also just want to thank all the witnesses that came forward. I know that it is not easy to come to this building. It is a little intimidating and there's never enough time to hear from everybody,especially the personal stories that are so deep and entrenched in family history and clearly in the history of the state, and so I just want to say thank you for coming to this building for sharing what you can share. I know that there are many of us that want to move our state forward. Thank you. And you may close. Thank you. I think we've had a good discussion and just to clarify, 1437 does not abolish the felony murder rule. It retains the liability of felony murder for anyone who committed the murder, planned, aided the killing, acted with recklessness during the crime, masterminded the crime and a whole host of other conditions. But what it does do is narrow the application, so that it more reflects the person's role in the crime. And as I indicated in response or in our discussion, I have taken a number of amendments that we worked out with the DAs. I will continue these conversations with law enforcement and the DAs, because it is my hope that this bill could be in a final place where they could be at least neutral. Again, these things nothing is ever guaranteed in life, but that is I think that the Association would testify to our good conversations and my intent to try to meet those needs. But with that, I respectfully ask for your aye vote. Thank you and the chair's recommending aye really, because what I'm hearing from the opposition that you've had respectful, honest, open discussions on this matter, you've taken some of the amendments and you will continue to discuss, so that we ensure that we don't let people out who really are culpable, liable and guilty that we're not given a free pass. And so with that, I'm recommending that the Committee do an aye vote. SB 1437, the motion is do pass to the Appropriations Committee. Jones-Sawyer? Aye. Jones-Sawyer aye. Lackey? Carrillo? Aye. Carrillo aye. Kamlager-Dove? Aye. Kamlager-Dove aye. Kiley? Kiley no, Quirk? Aye. Quirk aye. Santiago?That measure passes. Thank you and your last item 1421. 