Members, we are going to recharge the Senate third reading file.
This is file item 347, senate Bill 1437.
The clerk will read Senate Bill 1437 by Senator Skinner and actor Linda Murder.
Mr.
Medina?
Thank you, Mr.
Speaker and members.
Today I rise to present Senate Bill 1437, a bill that limits murder prosecutions to people who intended to kill, actually killed, aided and abetted a murder, or behaved with reckless indifference to human life by doing so.
SB 1437 reforms California's existing law by making clear the distinction between individuals who participated in an underlying crime from individuals who chose to take someone's life or directly aided in taking of that life.
In California, a person can be convicted of murder and face life in prison without killing anyone or even witnessing the murder under what's called the Felony Murder Rule.
A few days ago, I had the pleasure of meeting Bobby Garcia in 192.
Bobby Garcia was 16 years old.
He was living a rough life, making bad choices with the groups of friends that he hung out with.
One night, he and a group of friends made the terrible decision to rob a gang member.
It wasn't until Bobby was picked up by the police and interrogated the next day that he learned that one of his friends stabbed and killed the robbery victim after they had all fled the robbery.
Bobby had no intention of murdering anyone.
He did not commit the murder.
He had no weapon on his person, and he was not even at the scene of the crime.
Yet he was facing a life sentence without parole under the Felony Murder Rule.
Bobby was told that if he pled guilty, he would avoid life without parole.
At the age of 16, he was given two options.
Mr.
Chair, I asked for order, please.
Members.
Please give Mr.
Medina your undivided attention.
At the age of 16, he was given two options spend the rest of his life in prison or plead guilty and have the possibility of parole.
He pled guilty today, the young man that I met, Bobby Garcia, is the executive Director of the Jesuit Restorative Justice Initiative and provides counseling to incarcerated men and women throughout California.
Bobby is married with two daughters and a three year old and a two month old.
In 2014, Bobby was released from California prison after serving 22 years for a murder he did not commit.
In 1983, the California Supreme Court called the Felony Murder Rule barbaric because it divorced intent from responsibility.
The justices said only the legislature could fix the problem.
The time to fix the problem is now.
This statute irrationally treats people who did not commit murder the same way it treats people who did commit murder.
The Felony Murder Rule is not only unjust on its face, it is unjust in its application.
30 seconds, Mr.
Miller.
The average age of a non killer sentence under Felony Murder is between 19 and 20 years old.
72% of the women serving life sentences for murder in California were not the killer.
They were convicted under the Felony Murder Rule.
Before I started teaching in the public schools, I taught at the California Institution for Women for two years.
And there I met many women who hadn't killed anyone but were remorseful, but they were incarcerated under this rule.
I stand today in support of SP 1437 because it reserves the harshest punishment for those who intentionally planned or actually committed the murder.
There are many people, like Bobby, who were incarcerated under this rule who never committed murder and are ready for the opportunity to accept responsibility for their portion of the crime.
SB 1437 is not a get out of jail free card.
Far from it.
Each defendant can still be charged and is still guilty of the serious felony he or she committed.
And those who petition for resentencing, if successful, will also be held responsible for the underlying felony.
Please conclude, Mr.
Medina.
I ask for your I vote on SB 1437.
Thank you, Mr.
Medina.
Ms.
Rubio?
Thank you, Mr.
Speaker.
I stand in support of SB 1437 members.
According to a 2018 survey by the Antirecitivism Coalition and Restored Justice, 72% of women serving a life sentence under California's Felony Murder Rule were not the perpetrators and did not commit murder.
Many of those cases, women were physically abused by their intimate partner.
One woman's organization who offers counseling and support in women's prisons in California Road.
The vast majority of incarcerated women we work with who were sentenced under the Felony Murder Rule were accomplices, navigating, intimate partner violence and were criminalized for survival acts.
These women are not murderers.
SB 1437 ensures that we will continue to punish those who should be punished, but with a punishment that is scaled to the level of the person's involvement in the crime.
It allows us to distinguish those who actually killed from those who did not.
An important, just and appropriate distinction.
Thank you.
And I urge your vote on SB 1437.
Thank you, Mr.
Rubio, Mr.
Bonta.
Thank you, Mr.
Speaker and colleagues.
With SB 1437, california once again has the chance to make an important and needed reform to our criminal justice system.
With SB 1437, an individual may only be convicted of murder, certainly a serious and horrible crime, if the individual willingly participated in an act that results in a homicide or an act that clearly was intended to result in a homicide.
And the purpose of our justice system is to hold people accountable for the specific crimes they have committed in a fair and legal proceeding.
But with existing law and the Felony Murder Rule, that is not always the case.
Unfortunately, under the Felony Murder Rule, a person can be charged with the most serious crime in our penal code even though they indisputably never committed that crime.
That is wrong.
We can change that today.
The time has come.
I want to thank Senators Skinner and Anderson for authoring this bill and for all their hard work in fighting for this much needed change, respectfully ask for your I vote.
Mr.
Cooper.
You're recognized.
Thank you.
Mr.
Speaker, this bill is retroactive applying to those who've already been convicted of murder.
Question for the author under this bill.
Without objection.
Thank you.
Cooper under this bill, what would someone who is serving time for murder have to show in order to qualify for resentencing?
And also, what will the burden of proof be for the prosecution at resentencing?
Mr.
Medina, you may take that now or in your close.
I'll do it in my close.
Mr.
Medina will address that question in his closed, Mr.
Cooper.
Okay.
The convicted murder only has to show that he was charged and convicted of murder, but was not the actual killer or major participant.
Let me make it clear.
This bill does not address a standard of burden of proof for the resentencing of a convicted murder.
Beyond that, it only requires a person be declared they were not the actual killer or a major participant.
It's on the prosecution to prove otherwise and must, in essence, retry the case.
This will become problematic under many scenarios, but especially troubling in cases in which the convicted murder is already pled guilty.
In those plea bargains, there's no record of testimony, trial transcripts to review.
So it's just a plea bargain in these cases, we don't have the evidence.
The end result would be that those who pled guilty and are currently serving time for murder will be released.
The low estimate of those convicted for murder is at a minimum of 600 persons.
The number comes from the proponents of the bill.
The District Attorney's Association believe this number could be much higher.
Bottom line, what this bill does is release those convicted murder in many cases with no documentation of a trial, transcript of a trial, evidence to refute convicted murderers intent during the crime.
Let's be honest here on this.
This is high risk behavior.
In Stockton, the Misty holds seeing murder, driver drives up, drops three guys off.
They go in the bank with guns to rob the bank.
That is high risk behavior.
The driver never went in, okay?
But he's dropping off to go rob a bank.
She got killed and two bad guys were killed.
That's the big issue.
Think about that.
A lot of marijuana rip offs.
You're going in with guns.
So a lot of these things happen during high risk behaviors.
And the women, they're a victim of domestic violence.
Absolutely.
But in a lot of these cases, they knew their boyfriends carry guns.
I've arrested people like that before and done this and booked somebody for felony murder.
It happens a lot.
So rarely does someone know, hey, I had no idea this was going on.
They see it, they see the gun.
They know what's going on.
And it's crazy.
Right now we're releasing 100 lifers a month in California.
Ask CDCR 100 lifers a month.
AB 109, prop 47, Prop 57, prop 54.
Like earlier, someone said earlier, we don't talk about victims.
We never talk about victims ever.
Ever.
It's like human trafficking.
Wow.
There's been 84 bills in two years, but what, 16% have passed.
Really?
What does it come down to?
This is a rule for a reason.
If you want to fix it, let's fix it right and do it right.
But for that to happen, the driver just to go through and get a robbery conviction, it comes down to accountability.
There's no accountability right now.
But if you're taking someone to commit a crime like that, and typically most of those crimes, someone knew, hey, I knew he carried a knife, I knew he carried a gun where no one had any idea.
Those are few and far in between.
That's the real world.
You can fantasize all day.
I've made the arrest.
I've helped prosecute the cases.
I worked gangs, I worked in homicide.
So this is accurate, but you can just talk about it all day.
But at what point does the victim make a difference?
At what point does the victim ever matter?
That that's probably the most frustrating part.
The families.
What about their families?
The the person, the suspect, he gets to go home and see how he can write to them and see them and come visit him, put money on the books.
What does it do for the victim?
They're in the grave.
So so at some point we know we got to fix all this.
And I'll tell you what, the chickens are coming home to roost.
That's why you have initiative in 2020 on crime stuff, because people are fed up.
And that's that's the bottom line.
Who do we represent?
We represent everybody.
The victims also.
But you never hear the victims in here.
Everyone can stand up and talk all they want, but when you're in there looking at a dead body and I did that for many, many years, a lot of dead bodies, a lot of victims of violent crime that didn't deserve to die, you got to hold people accountable.
You know what you're doing.
This really makes no sense.
How far are we going to go?
What if it's your family member laying there dead?
Oh, I didn't know.
I didn't know.
I can't tell you how many interviews I sat in on homicide suspects and accomplices that knew.
When you really dig down deep and ask them the right question, do the right interview, they knew that person was subject to that behavior.
30 seconds.
You want to sit here and justify this?
If you want to fix things, fix things right.
Don't jam it through.
We jam through bell.
We jam through a bunch of things.
Fix it right, have a conversation that gets it done.
If you want to get it done, there's no hurry.
Here we are, two days left, a session or three days, whatever it is.
And we're working on this.
There's time to work on this and do it right, but this is doing it the wrong way.
I respectfully urge you, no vote on this bill.
Mr.
Mersucci, you're recognized.
Thank you very much.
I respectfully rise in opposition to SB 1437.
And let me tell you why.
I don't know how many of you have read any of the committee analyses on this bill, but clearly I think we all recognize that the Felony Murder Rule needs to be reformed and needs to be changed.
We've heard several anecdotal examples of how people that had minimal involvement or no showing of intent to commit murder or any, any other serious crime would be convicted of murder under the Felony Murder Rule.
But this bill is not the right solution.
We need to work on getting this right, because this is going to lead to the release of people and this is going to lead to the further pain and suffering of crime victims.
There's a reason why the Crime Victims United of California are opposed to this.
If you read the Assembly Public Safety Committee analysis, it talks about how this bill provides no exception to allow for a trial transcript to be used in a resentencing hearing.
So that's going to be to require the calling of all victims, all witnesses, all family members who have been involved in the original case, to testify once again to reopen the pain and suffering that they went through through the original case.
Next, the bill talks about the analysis, talks about how in cases that resolve through a negotiated plea, which is the vast majority of all felony cases, no such record exists in terms of transcripts, a court record to rely on.
And so virtually all participants in these felony murders would qualify for relief to which they may not be entitled.
And last but not least, this bill is placing the burden on the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that petitioners do not qualify for resentencing.
So, in other words, the presumption is with those convicted of felony murder to be resentenced.
This is not the right solution to the problem of felony murders.
This will lead to the release of those who should not be relieved.
This goes too far.
It requires crime victims to have to reopen the pain of having to come back to court to testify once again to justify why they feel that.
A.
Person should be behind bars.
I ask that we do this right and we reject this bill.
Ms.
Gonzalez fletcher, you're recognized.
I rise in support of this critical bill because victims do matter.
And victims should feel good when we put away their actual killers, but nobody finds peace to put away otherwise less culpable individuals when somebody is killed.
And that has happened again and again and again.
I've ventured to say, any of us who went to law school when we first started criminal law and learned about the felony murder rule were exposed to how archaic and unjust it could be.
I know because the case laws that we saw were always perplexing, we had to look at how perplexing it was to get through the idea that California actually has this.
And some of the things brought up on this floor are a little, I think, outdated in the analysis because I know that the amendments taken in the Appropriations committee allows the DA's court to use all materials and all evidence in the resentencing case.
The burden is on the petitioner to allow for a case to move forward.
And of course, we've exempted all cases that deal with a cop killer.
So there were amendments taken to some of the concerns.
And I understand that there might be concerns, because this isn't perfect.
We can't ever expect something that's perfect.
But I can tell you if anyone here has spoken to some of the folks who aren't perfect, have made some mistakes in their lives, but would have never killed somebody, would have never participated in something that resulted in a death, and yet are spending the rest of their lives in jail because of what somebody else did.
We talked earlier on this floor about making mistakes when we were younger or making mistakes throughout our lives.
It's amazing to me because some of us on this floor have made mistakes as adults, been arrested as adults.
There are mistakes that are made that should not result in an individual spending the rest of their life in prison for a murder they did not commit, would not commit, had no intention of being committed, and did not participate in helping it be committed except being there, driving a car, being with a loved one, a boyfriend or husband.
Often this is about justice for the actual victim because the actual perpetrator should be the one spending the rest of their lives in jail.
And too often we have heard stories about the person who is actually shooting the gun or causing the murder, making a plea deal, and the person who might have made some mistakes and should spend time in jail for their mistakes, spend the rest of their life in prison for the actual murder.
It doesn't make sense.
It's not justice.
And this should be fixed.
I respectfully ask for my vote.
Thank you, Ms.
Gonzalez.
Fletcher.
All debate and discussion having ceased.
Mr.
Medina, you may close.
Thank you, Mr.
Speaker.
Thank my colleagues for the discussion to answer my colleague from Sacramento.
The burden of proof is initially on the petitioner to show that they can make a case that they did not kill, intend to kill, or act recklessly in the crime that they were convicted of.
Amendments to the bill make clear that the petitioner has to set forth a valid argument under penalty of perjury with evidence from the court record in order to be considered for resentencing SB 1437 will alliance California with England, Ireland, Canada and states such as Arkansas, Hawaii, Kentucky, Massachusetts and Michigan, all who have reformed the murder statues.
With Senate Bill 1437, California has an opportunity to better serve the interests of justice.
SB 1437 is a prudent move which can bring needed coherence to the criminal justice system without compromising the safety by holding people accountable for their own actions.
I ask you respectfully to vote yes.
I on SB 1430.
Thank you, Mr.
Medina.
And with that, the clerk will open the roll.
All members vote.
Who desire to vote?
All members voter vote.
Desire to vote.
All members voter desire to vote.
All members vote.
And desire to.
