Good morning.
Lizzy Beacon with the ACLU, California.
Unfortunately, we are in opposition to AB 31 29.
We do not oppose gun control measures that protect public welfare and are nondiscriminatory and fair.
Unfortunately, A B 31 29 discriminates against people with a misdemeanor with a misdemeanor on their record by enacting a lifetime ban on anyone with a misdemeanor relating to domestic violence, no matter how much time has passed, no matter what their rehabilitation has been like.
This perpetuates the harmful and unfounded stereotype that someone with a criminal conviction is forever dangerous is inherently dangerous.
Again, regardless of how much time has passed.
I want to note that when a police officer has been convicted of domestic violence, they can petition to get their guns back immediately.
So under this bill, which does not change that under this bill and a police officer convicted of domestic violence could petition to get their gun back, they don't even have to wait ten years.
But a civilian would have a lifetime ban.
And this ban is not without consequences.
If a person who has ever had a misdemeanor conviction for these crimes comes into the possession of a gun, they can be arrested, prosecuted, incarcerated for a felony.
This will certainly have disproportionate harm on communities of color.
According to the Department of justice in California, nearly a fourth of the felony arrests or arrests for felony gun offenses were of people who are black and nearly half were people who are Latino.
These populations make up six and a half percent and 39% of the population in California, respectively.
So we agree that we need gun control that protects the public.
Unfortunately, there's no evidence that this would do that.
There's no evidence that a ten year ban is not sufficient.
This bill stigmatizes and discriminates against people who have ever had a misdemeanor conviction for one of these offenses and will have a disproportionate impact on people of color.
And I will note that I recognize the data presented of the low rates of reporting of abuse and violence and agree with that.
I agree that that's a big problem.
This bill does not address that, and instead, it would just have this disproportionate impact on people.
So for those reasons, we are opposed.
Thank you.
Are there any other witnesses in opposition?
Are there any questions from committee members, ms.
Kamala or Dove?
Thank you.
So I have a question.
I know this is an incredibly personal bill, and as a survivor, it's very important that we have uncomfortable conversations like this as it relates to domestic violence.
I was wondering if someone could help define for me what possession means for this bill.
This bill has nothing to do with possession.
It's about being able to buy a gun, right?
No.
It's a lifetime ban on owning a gun.
Not possessing a gun.
It's owning a gun thing.
No.
If someone is in possession of a gun 40 years after a misdemeanor conviction for one of these offenses, they can be prosecuted for a felony.
Possession would probably mean knowing possession.
Knowing possession in terms of criminal, substantive criminal law, if somebody sneaks into your office and slips a handgun into your bag, you're not in possession of it.
This is pretty much standard criminal law.
But if you're knowing possession, then you're in possession.
But if I'm with someone in a car and the gun is in the car, I don't know that it's in the car.
But if we get stopped because I'm black, because the taillight is out, because I'm black and someone starts looking in the car and they find it, the DA may more likely than not want to intimate that I know that the gun is in the car because.
I'm.
Black, because probable cause.
Because that's how they want to well, I don't want to cast any aspersions, but you see where I'm going with the questioning.
How are we defining possession?
Because it can mean I own it.
It can mean I know where it is, but it can also mean I just happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, and there's a gun near me, and then all sorts of things begin to come together.
So is there any sort of specific definition or defined scope of what possession means for this bill?
Well, I think it is a serious issue.
You're right.
Of course, we have the same issue when it comes to possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.
And so our law enforcement officers and judges ultimately have to deal with that issue in the context of cars and so forth all the time.
I confess I'm not up to snuff on the case law at that immediately.
Generally, under substantive law, to be in possession of drugs or in possession of a firearm, you have to know that you have possession of it.
It has to be knowing possession.
So the issue that you raise is a real substantive issue.
There's undoubtedly a great deal of established law on it, since we have so many prosecutions for possession of a firearm by a felon, and we frequently find guns in cars.
So I'm sure it's been litigated before.
I wish I had a more definitive answer for you.
Yeah, I would say that that scenario is not an unusual one, and it is one that comes up often, and people are convicted for felon in possession of a firearm for a gun in their trunk.
Okay.
Any other questions?
Yes, Ms.
Kuria.
Thank you.
First, I'd like to thank the author for bringing this bill to this committee.
I know that sharing real lived experience that have traumatic impact is not easy.
And to all the testimony that came in today that agrees with your bill, I also believe that we need to empower those that have been victims of domestic violence.
What I appreciate about this bill is that it actually brings California law into federal standards.
And I think that's what we need to consider here as a policy committee, that we really do need to think about where California currently is, where the federal law is, and aligning policy in that matter.
So thank you again for bringing it to our attention.
You may close.
Thank you, Mr.
Chair.
And just so you know that it is discriminating against domestic violence abusers.
I have a personal story.
My sister is a victim of domestic violence, and her abuser is still harassing her, and not directly because he's under a restraining order, but I'm sure as soon as the restraining order is lifted, there'll be some attempts to harm her.
And so for me, it is personal, and I am discriminating against domestic violence abusers because domestic violence goes unreported.
My sister was brave enough to speak, and even because she spoke, she's still being harassed.
And we can sit here and talk about the rights of the abusers all we want.
What about the rights for the victims and the danger?
Statistically, 84 La county, 84.9% of the violent domestic violence are caused by firearms had prior domestic violence misdemeanors.
I am looking out for the victims, and we also talk about how we are in support of those students that spoke out against owning guns, but in this case, we're not supporting that same concept about restricting gun ownership.
I respectfully ask for your I vote, but for me, this is personal, and I will continue to advocate for victims of domestic violence.
And again, I can appreciate the rights of everybody else, but where are the rights of the victims?
And to me, that is the most important.
Domestic violence doesn't see color.
Domestic violence doesn't see gender.
Domestic violence doesn't see socioeconomic conditions.
And for that, I am very passionate about this Bill, and I will continue advocating for victims of domestic violence regardless of, if it may seem, discriminatory against domestic violence abusers.
With that, I respectfully ask for your advocate.
Okay.
I know you're passionate about this, and hopefully this discussion had not devolved into being prejudiced toward domestic violence victims.
I don't think that was the intent of the opposition.
So as someone who's been part of domestic violence, who grew up in domestic domestic violence, and for the first time, I'm 61 years old, this is the first time I've ever mentioned it.
I'm 61 years old.
It happened in my family when I was seven, and it was because of alcoholism and until they got treatment and until my father and stepfather learned that what they were doing was rough to I have images in my head that sear in my head every day, every day that I can't get out.
And when people ask me, why am I so close to my mother?
Because we went through that hell together.
So this committee not only will do whatever we can domestic violence victims, we also want to make sure we ensure that those two black men.
My father and stepfather aren't discriminated against either.
And that's very important because they did change their life.
They did become respectful members of society.
They did go to church every day.
They did stop doing that.
And I think what you're hearing is, let's make sure, one, we don't discriminate against either.
One, we provide an opportunity.
Two, for me, and I've said this a million times for me, it's about implementation.
And so, as I spoke to you, it's on the books.
The federal law is taking care of it.
And so my question, more importantly than anything else, if there's some holes in the system where we're not banning people who have committed domestic violence, if their numbers are going up because we don't have it on the books, in California.
That's my concern of making sure that we can't implement this in a way that will be most effective and have the most impact, so that we do make sure that guns do not get in the hands of individuals who are violent periods.
I don't care if it's domestic.
I don't care if it's a hate crime.
I had a bill banning hate crime, misdemeanor hate crime, individuals from owning guns for ten years.
I wanted to make it a lifetime ban.
So I get it.
I'm with you.
I just want to make sure, not only that we implement it, that we just don't make laws.
I've been on the other side on implementation.
We make laws, and then it's either never really actuated in a way that fully helps, or it's done incorrectly and it causes more harm than good.
And that's where we're at.
And I need to apologize to the author because I hadn't had enough time, so many bills to sit down with you and figure out a way to make sure that when we implement this whatever way we need to make sure that this follows along federal law, that there are no holes in our crack, that it does work with the system that we have for firearms, that we do go after.
And if we have to retrieve guns from people who are domestic violence abusers, that we're able to get there if they have guns.
I want to have that discussion.
How do we get guns out of dangerous people's hands?
That's really, really important, and I believe we can do that if we work together to get to that.
I'm just not sure if we're there yet.
And so I'm going to lay off today.
Hopefully, we can continue this conversation.
But I feel your passion.
I understand.
I'm not voting because I think we also got to think of this in a systematic, logical way so that whatever this committee approves, it makes sense.
And most important, we can get the job done so that we can protect not only your family, but every family in California.
And so that those statistics that you mentioned, that they go down or they just don't stay the same.
And we keep piling law on top of law on top of law on top of law.
And we have this mound of paperwork, but nothing gets done because the implementation part we feel good that we did this, but the implementation part falls short.
And that's why, and I would love for you to bring this back next year, but we'll see what happens today.
So I'm laying off today.
Thank you.
ABAB 31 29.
The motion is due past your appropriations.
Joan Sawyer.
Not voting.
John Sawyer.
Not voting.
Lackey.
Lackey.
I Carrieo.
Carrieo.
I came.
Lager dev.
Cam.
Lager dev.
Not voting.
Kylie.
Kylie.
I quirk quirk.
Not voting.
Santiago.
That measures on call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
30.
