Good morning, Mr.
Chairman, members of the committee.
How are you?
Good, good.
Kathy lynch representing the National Shooting Sports Foundation.
We represent manufacturers and dealers, and we're in opposition to this bill.
The industry is already very heavily regulated at both the federal and state level.
California law does currently authorize inspections, so you don't need bill to do that.
The inspection cycle that would be mandated is actually detrimental to public safety because it doesn't allow for good inspection planning.
And if they know that there's troubled spots, it puts a strain on their resources.
And it was suggested by the author's staff that DOJ wanted this bill.
If that in fact is true, then that would suggest one of two things.
One, that this bill is really about raising revenue and increasing the cost of doing business by increasing the fees.
And we should have an honest conversation if that's what it's about.
It would increase it from ninety five dollars to one hundred and fifteen dollars.
A lot of these are small businesses and otherwise it would suggest that DOJ needs a level of oversight in the Firearms Division, that maybe we need a top down review if they can't manage on doing their inspections.
We know they've struggled mightily with the Armed Prohibited Persons program over the years, and that's been a strain on their resources.
And I would suggest that perhaps we take a deeper look if they need to be told how and when to do inspections.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr.
Chairman.
And members.
Sam Perrette is representing gun owners in California, and our concern is over the provision of the mandatory three year inspection of all dealers.
We did the calculations and based on the number of dealers there are, and if they were, the inspectors were to take a minimal amount of time to conduct inspections.
And we know that some dealers take literally weeks to do and some are accomplished in a very short period of time.
It would take a staff of several trained inspectors probably our estimates are somewhere between four and five years, working 365 days a year in order to conduct those inspections.
Right now, DOJ has the authority to conduct as many inspections as often as they want to of any dealers.
And what we have seen is that when they identify a troubled dealer, they inspect them regularly, if not more often than that.
But for a lot of dealers who have proven throughout history that their records are absolutely clean, they have earned the trust of the Department of justice and the inspectors, and DOJ takes a little bit of longer in order to conduct an inspection.
They still conduct the inspections, but if they were to find that there's an issue, then they conduct them more often.
But this is going to put DOJ into a box that is, people do not understand what goes on in an inspection.
How do I know, Mr.
Chairman?
As I pointed out here, I'm a licensed firearms dealer in the state of California, and I have had DOJ and BATF inspections of my very small books, and it is very time consuming.
This is needless to accomplish any sort of law enforcement purpose.
Everything already happens in this law we believe puts the Department of justice into a box that they don't need to be put into for those reasons, gun owners of California as opposed to this bill.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Are there any other witnesses in opposition?
Mr.
Chairman, members of the committee craig Deluxe on behalf of Farmers Policy Coalition.
We liked the previous version of this bill, but unfortunately, with the requirements for the inspections, we're going to have to oppose.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Mr.
Chairman.
We're not opposed to any of the other provisions of the bill.
I neglected to say that.
Thank you.
Thank you for the clarification.
Any questions from committee members?
Yes, Mr.
Kylie and Mr.
Lackey.
My concern is the burden that this is going to place on DOJ is considerable.
I don't think anybody can argue that.
And I've just learned that the allocation from Budget Sub Five was denied a conference.
And so I have concerns over the priority and actual implementation that this is actually going to be able to be carried out.
And that's my biggest concern.
We have not received any pushback from DOJ on this.
I believe the three year framework came directly from them in the conversation with Senate Appropriations, and so we're not hearing from them that this is going to create a burden at all.
So if that helps mr.
Kylie.
Thank you.
And good morning, Senator.
So I really wish these were two different bills, because I I'm very supportive of the first part.
On the second, do you have any sense of what the kind of existing frequency of inspections is and whether or not there are issues out there with licensed firearm dealers that are not being identified because the inspections are not sufficiently frequent?
I don't have the actual statistics, but we've anecdotally been told that it's a problem that needs to be rectified.
And DOJ is this is the framework that has come out of that.
So dealers are not being inspected.
I mean, that's the bottom line.
If they were, we wouldn't be bringing the bill forward.
Was there a comment to add from.
Well, I just add that a few years ago, we did a public record request on dealer violations just for the top five dealers and their violations.
And I was rather astounded at how long the list was.
So clearly the violations happen.
Just want to make that point.
And how do we know what violations aren't happening if the inspections aren't happening?
So the whole idea of focusing the effort is a little difficult to do if you don't know where you need to focus.
Yes.
Mr.
McCarthy, second.
Thank you, Mr.
Porntino.
Senator, a few things.
One, I support this in concept and I have a few follow ups, but can you maybe I'm not regular on this committee on something today.
So my understanding, reading real quick, is that the fee structure to address the issue of staffing for Department of justice is addressed and the licensing fee would increase by $20, roughly.
And we think that would cover the staffing issues at the Department of justice.
Right.
Again, this is not an exorbitant increase.
It's not an exorbitant amount, but there's a lack of oversight and this solves that problem.
Yeah, I don't think that's unreasonable.
Many businesses with lower public safety issues are inspected on a regular basis.
Do you know how often California inspects nail salons in California?
I do not know, but I bet you'd know, every year.
And the dangers of nail salons is one thing and the dangers which could go wrong when somebody theft and oversight and security and all kinds of issues with licensed gun dealers are well documented.
So I don't think this is an unreasonable issue.
And I think that there's a nexus here based upon what we have seen in California.
So I support this measure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And you may close.
No.
Assembly member did a very good job.
This is not onerous.
This is needed and the cost is not exorbitant.
And when we're dealing with public safety and we pride ourselves that we have great approaches to public safety and gun ownership, we should have inspections that are commensurate with what we've done in the past.
So I respectfully ask for an I.
Vote, and I want to thank my colleagues because basically you asked the questions that I had and you got the answers that satisfied to me that we need to go forward.
And I also was with Mr.
Lackey and trying to get additional funding for DOJ for a myriad of different things, including cannabis, and didn't move forward.
And we were very disappointed in that.
The fact that there's a funding stream not coming from the general fund, it helps a lot.
The fact that DOJ has not pushed back and said they couldn't do it and that you actually this is my thing that I say over and over again, talk to the people who have to implement it, and then you put it into law instead of the instead of us trying to foist it on them.
So knowing it was really important to know that when it went to Senate that that question was proposed to DOJ and they didn't feel any problems with it.
And then finally, the fact that nail staunch can do it every year, we need to move this on.
So with that call the roll SB 746.
The motion is due pass as amended to the Appropriations Committee.
Joan Sawyer.
Jone Sawyer.
I Lackey.
Lackey not voting.
Carrie.
Carrie.
I McCarthy.
McCarthy.
I Kylie.
Kylie.
No quirk weber builds on call one more.
Senator Bell.
Item number one, low number whenever you are ready.
