Members, again, we're grateful for your patience.
Senator Skinner is going to be taking up file item 124.
We're then going to lift the call, and then we're going to go back to file item 34 and work the file.
Mr.
Secretary, can you please read file.
Item 124, senate Bill 1437 by Senator Skinner and accurately a murder.
Good afternoon, Senator Skinner.
Thanks so much, mr.
President, members, last year we had a resolution before us which talked about this old English common law practice of felony murder rule, which has in, can be very broadly applied to sweep up anyone who is at or around the committing of a felony that results in a death.
They can be swept up and charged with felony murder.
And in that resolution, we addressed the different court cases that have decried the fact that various of our states, including California, have not appropriately defined our murder statute.
So this broad sweeping does not occur.
That resolution had over 30 senators voting in support.
What I bring before you today with SB 1437 is the ability to refine our murder statute so that it can appropriately fit the crime that is committed.
And it would align California with states like Arkansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio that have also rewritten their murder statutes to reflect this application.
Now, SB 1437 does not let murderers off the hook.
It retains liability for anyone who actually committed a murder, who aided a killing, who planned a killing, or even acted with recklessness during the crime.
What SB 1437 is designed to do is to protect individuals like this particular woman who is now serving a life sentence in California's state prison.
Her initials are VJ.
And I will relay to you the circumstances of her sentence and her charge.
VJ was renting to someone, a room in the back of her house.
That renter had an ongoing argument with their mutual neighbor.
The renter repeatedly threatened to harm VJ and her elderly father, who lived with her if she would not inform him or if she did not inform him when the neighbor returned home.
Fearing for her and her father, VJ informed the renter that the neighbor had returned home.
As soon as she heard the fighting that then ensued between her renter and the neighbor, she rushed out, went to the aid of the neighbor, even drove the neighbor to the hospital.
Unfortunately, that neighbor did not survive.
V.
J.
Did not know that the renter intended to commit that action of harm against the neighbor.
She did her best to intervene and to save his life.
And yet she was charged under the felony Murder rule and was sentenced 25 years to life.
Now, in addition to appropriately fixing our murder statute so that it would not apply in cases such as that, it also establishes 1437, a process for resentencing.
And I've taken amendments from our California DA's Association on a number of points, especially on the resentencing portion, to address their concerns.
And with that, I ask for your I vote on SB 1437.
Thank you, Senator Skinner.
Do we have any discussion or debate?
Senator Stone.
And we're going to turn it over to Senator Weiner and then Senator Anderson.
Senator Stone.
Thank you, Mr.
President.
And I know that the California District Attorneys Association is still in opposition.
I'm not sure if they still are with the amendments.
I hope that the author will raise that issue in her closing statement.
But based on what I do know, I'm rising in opposition.
SB 1437.
While I certainly understand the author's intent, I feel this bill goes a bit too far and raises some serious questions.
Because the bill can be applied retroactively, there will be a number of unintended consequences.
What if a murder conviction comes not from a jury, but as a result of a plea bargain?
As the California District Attorneys rightfully point out, under the provisions of this measure, a resentencing hearing will be necessarily required with a full court record, including transcripts and exhibits, to determine the exact level of participation in the crime in order to determine whether a particular defendant is, in fact, entitled to relief.
In cases that are resolved through a negotiated plea, no such record exists.
And virtually all participants in murder may qualify for relief to which they may not be entitled.
Additionally, this bill requires the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the criminal falls into one of the categories that precludes resentencing.
Once again, in cases that are resolved through a negotiated plea deal, the absence of a full court record will necessarily prevent the people from establishing beyond a reasonable doubt whether a petitioner is excluded.
This could mean that just about any criminal who petitions, even those who were major participants in a crime which resulted in death, could be entitled to resentencing and the elimination of their sentence members.
This bill goes way too far and I think sets a very dangerous precedent.
For those reasons, I would urge you to vote no one SB 1437.
Thank you.
Senator Stone.
Senator Weiner.
Thank you very much.
Mr.
President.
I rise in strong support of SB 1437.
This bill is long overdue.
The felony murder rule is dramatically too broad, and it is sweeping up people who may have committed a crime, but they should not be guilty of murder.
It's ruining people's lives rather than rehabilitating them.
And we should definitely pass this bill.
And I want to thank the senator from Berkeley for bringing it forward.
Thank you, Senator Anderson.
We're going to go to Senator Nielsen.
Senator Anderson.
Senators.
Look, we've all heard or read the case where somebody goes with buddies to 711 and somebody runs in to get slurped for everybody in the car.
And then there's a gunshot.
Someone dies, and they're all charged with pulling the trigger.
But the driver and the friends in the car had no idea the crime was going to occur.
But they're addressed under this law.
And we know that to be wrong.
It's not fair.
Even if they knew and they thought that they were going to be shoplifting, but never understood that a weapon was going to be taken in and used or discharged, taking someone's life, but they're charged as if they had pulled the trigger.
On the flip side, we've also read and learned that some people plot in cold blood that they're going to go to 711, they're going to kill the witnesses, and they're going to steal and they should be charged.
But they're all lumped together.
This bill sets out to separate the two, to give real justice to those who weren't active participants in the murder of another.
Now, having said that, I'm supporting the bill, but when I heard the testimony in public safety and it was riveting, they talked about, well, this is retroactive in some people plea bargain and there wouldn't be evidence because it was never went to trial.
So how do we determine that?
Well, may I ask a question of the author.
Senator Skinner, would you accept the question from Senator Anderson?
Yes, I will.
Senator Anderson, please proceed.
Madam Author, you were presented with this issue, and I know I spoke to you afterwards that this was a major issue, it was not intended, and I know you've taken amendments.
Can you explain those amendments and how that addresses this specific issue?
Yes.
Thank you for that question.
So there were a number of amendments that we took in the approach committee.
Most of them we took as a result of our discussions with the legislative committee of the California DA Association, specifically your question regarding resentencing.
But let me describe the three amendments, two of which have to do with resentencing.
The first Amendment I will describe, which does not have to do with resentencing.
Clarifies.
There is we still have on the books accessory to murder, accomplice to murder.
But there are those circumstances where an aiding and abetting, depending on the nature of it, should still allow for a first degree or second degree murder charge.
And the bill as originally drafted was perhaps too narrow.
So we accepted an amendment that broadened the provisions to ensure that anyone who aided or abetted a murder would still be eligible for a first or second degree murder charge.
Now, on the resentencing portion, these are the things we did.
We clarified that certain people would be ineligible for the resentencing portion of the bill due to being, for example, an older person directing a younger person in the crime or masterminding the crime or some provisions like that.
We secondarily flipped the burden of proof so that the petitioner would have to prove why they were eligible under this bill 1437 for resensing rather than the prosecution.
So the burden has to be on the petitioner, and it addressed the concerns of our district attorneys that the original bill placed the burden on the das to show that the petitioner was ineligible.
So we flipped that burden of proof, and those are the amendments we are taking.
And we are still working very closely with that Ledge Committee.
We were hopeful for a support position, but there's a few things we may still have to address.
But we are very close.
Thank you.
On my own time, please, Senators.
So in the case of a person who's simply going to the local Quickie Mart for a slurpee, who's driving this would allow them to be appropriately sentenced because they had no knowledge of the crime.
Yet, on the flip side, if they were part of planning and they had knowledge that they were going in with the intent of killing somebody or had the potential of killing somebody, they still could be charged with murder one or murder two.
I think this strikes that balance.
In the case of retroactive, it's up to the incarcerated person to make the case of why they should be under consideration.
Now, one of the concerns I had was, well, they plea bargained, so it never went to trial.
Well, there's still a record of evidence.
It's all in the police documents, in the charging documents of when they went to them initially and said, we're going to charge you with this because we believe that you're guilty.
That evidence is still there.
That evidence is still pertinent.
So that person who's incarcerated will have to overcome that burden in order to be considered.
It is a heavy burden that they have to overcome.
So I'm confident there are some minor adjustments that still need to come our way.
But I'm confident that the author and I'm a joint author on this bill, so I'm very confident with my joint author that it will be addressed moving forward.
But the major issues, the major ripple effect that was such a problem, that had this bill in such upheaval jerry, would you like to say something?
I know you're acting out stuff.
Do you have something to hide?
I believe that we've overcome a lot, and I think this bill is worthy of support.
I urge and I vote.
Thank you, Mr.
Senator, to the Dean of the Senate, Senator Nielsen.
Thank you, Mr.
President.
Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, what this doesn't overcome is a crime of murder.
Someone or people, many's are dead as a result of this behavior.
There already is a criteria.
The individual had to know the perpetrator.
They knew that he intended to commit such a crime.
And by their words of their conduct, they would obviously have knowledge of being a part.
It isn't just because you just happen to be riding along in the car and the guy just jumped out and started shooting and killed somebody.
It's a lot more than that.
That test and that bar is high.
Now, I respect the Das, and I know that they are under a lot of pressure to look at things differently these days.
But this is also a part of the plea bargain is an issue.
Plea bargain means they pled to something lesser than could have been charged.
That happens with regularity.
And one of the most disturbing aspects of this, particularly regarding the retroactivity, is facts now being ever number of years later or even at the time for the resentencing portion of this, facts now considered that were not litigated at the time.
Now, what, in part does that mean?
At trial, the victims have standing.
And for a number of reasons over recent years, the standing of the victims of heinous atrocious crimes have lesser standing in these proceedings as well as in parole proceedings.
I dare this bill does not say that the victims can come back at this so called resentencing.
I would hope it does.
Maybe that would be one of the amendments that can be, in the future, taken.
I respect the author, too, and I commend the intent to work with the opposition.
I will only say because of the nature of the seriousness of this behavior, I do believe we ought not take another step.
I urge a no vote.
Thank you.
Senator.
Senator Morlock.
Good afternoon, sir.
Good afternoon, Mr.
President.
Sometimes you sort of wish you had the wisdom of solomon some of these bills today on dealing with issues of severity.
But sometimes you have to separate the wheat from the chaff when people are charged with a crime.
And you can't have everybody caught in the gill net.
Oh, man.
Be suffering serious penalties.
So, Mr.
President, I think we need to provide judges with flexibility.
And on the issue of retroactivity, of course you provide retroactivity because once you've modified, you should give that benefit to those before.
So I urge and I vote.
Mr.
President.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Senator, members, we'd like to be able to see if there's any additional discussion or debate on the floor.
Any additional discussion or debate on the floor.
Adam.
Senator, would you like to close, please?
Thank you, Mr.
President.
I think we had a good discussion.
And just to close it, I remind you that SB 1437 does not abolish the Felony Murder Rule and it retains liability for anyone who killed, aided the killing, planned the killing, or even acted with recklessness during the crime.
And I ask for your I vote.
Thank you, Madam Senator.
Mr.
Secretary, can you please call the role?
Allen?
Aye.
Anderson?
Aye.
Atkins?
I.
Bates?
No.
Bell?
I Berry?
Hill?
No.
Bradford canela?
I dailyone?
I dodd?
I.
Fuller?
No.
Gaines?
No.
Galciani glaser.
I hernandez?
I Herzberg?
I Hill?
I whistle jackson ay lota.
I leva?
I am maguire?
I mitchell?
I morning.
I Warlock?
I am Orrell?
No.
Newman?
No.
Wynn?
No.
Nilson?
No.
Pan?
I Portraitino.
Roth?
I.
Skinner?
I.
Stern?
Stone?
No.
Fidec?
No.
Waikowski?
Aye.
Weiner?
I.
Wilk?
No.
Mr.
Secretary, can you please call the absent members?
Bradford.
Galgioni?
Aye.
Weisso?
Aye.
Portraitino?
Stern?
Aye.
Ayes.
26.
Nos.
Eleven.
The measure passes members in about 60 seconds.
We're going to lift the call on and five bills.
We're going to start from the back and then go to the front.
We're going to start with file item 79.
Then we're going to go to item 27, 33, 86 and 37.
Please give us 60 seconds and we will be right back with you.
