Go ahead, Senator.
Important.
All right.
Thank you.
Madam Chair and members.
Today I'm presenting SB 100, which prohibits any person from making an application to purchase more than one firearm within a 30 day period.
The bill would also importantly prohibit the sale of any firearm by a licensed dealer to any person below the age of 21 years old.
In addition, because of the interaction of state and federal receivers or frames, the gun minus the barrel are also applicable to the 30 day purchase period.
While handguns are used in the majority of gun deaths, long guns have been used to perpetuate many of the largest mass shootings in US.
History, including the recent tragic events that took place in San Bernardino, California.
California is home to the most stringent gun laws in the country.
Proudly.
One example is requiring an individual to be 21 years of age in order to purchase a handgun.
Another is the general limitation on gun dealer delivery of one handgun to an individual in a 30 day period.
Since these laws have taken effect, the data shows there have been a successful reduction in the incidences of gun trafficking while not burdening legitimate gun owners or persons who wish to acquire guns.
In order to be uniformly consistent, california should apply the 30 day delivery period and 21 year age limit to long guns.
Over the past ten years, Californians have typically purchased more long guns than handguns.
Of the 26,682 guns used in crimes that were entered into the California Department of Justice Automated Firearm System database, 11,500 were long guns.
Preventing the flow of guns is important to public safety, regardless of whether the firearm is a handgun or a long gun, or purchase new from a dealer or through a private party transaction.
Limiting firearm sales to one gun per month is a recognized strategy to reduce gun trafficking and keeping firearms out of dangerous hands.
And on a personal note, just watching what happened in Florida, the parents and the rally cry of young people who have been engaged in this movement and driving all of us to do better, out of respect for those young people in Florida, I would respectfully ask this committee to pass this.
And with me today, I have Amanda Wilcox from the California chapter of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence on behalf of SB 1000.
Thank you, Ms.
Brady.
You may speak.
I mean, Mr.
Wilcox.
Sorry, it's early.
Very early.
As my husband refers to me as Mrs.
Brady.
I was probably just going there again.
Amanda Wilcox on behalf of the 28 chapters, california chapters of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, we are in support of SB 1100.
In general, our view is that handguns and long guns should be treated the same under California law, and we've been slowly accomplishing that over the years.
I think initially it was viewed that long guns are my grandfather's shotgun in the corner of the closet to deal with wildlife or whatever.
But now, as we so often hear, the modern day sporting rifle is a high powered semiautomatic that is just as lethal or more lethal than a handgun and sadly, seem to be the common weapon, the weapon of choice for some of these horrific mass shootings.
And so clearly, the laws to reduce violence with handguns should apply to long guns as well.
In terms of raising the minimum age for long guns to 21, I won't go over all the statistics in my letter except to point out that individuals age 18 to 20 compromise only 40 excuse me, only 4% of the population but commit 17% of gun homicides.
So there's a disproportionate involvement of youth under age 21 in gun violence.
And many youth are responsible, many are not.
And I think this is recognized in other areas.
For example, someone under 21 cannot rent a car, can't buy alcohol, can't buy a handgun.
It seems to be common sense that that also applied to long guns.
And then the other provision regarding capping the number of sales of long guns, making it apply to all firearms to one gun in a 30 day period.
This is a policy that's been before you before twice the bill that we have sponsored.
Again, this is to match handgun law.
But I want you to be clear that the reason for this is it's an anti trafficking tool when someone is buying 30 guns at once and stands to reason that they're turning around and sell them in the black market for a big profit.
I also want to mention that this provision will not impact most people, most long gun buyers.
About 82% of long guns sold are sold with a single long gun transaction in one in a 30 day period.
However, at the other end of the spectrum, we have individuals buying 177 guns in one month and digging into the specifics of that.
When more guns are sold at one time, they tend to be lower receivers which are built up into military style weapons, legal or illegal ones, and then sold on the black market.
And that's a practice that's clearly not in the interest of public safety of our state.
So I urge you to support this bill.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Do we have other witnesses in support?
Please come to the mic.
And I just wanted to notice people come that we have, as probably you noticed on the agenda very long, a lot of bills, long agenda we will be breaking at 1130.
And whatever bills we've not concluded at 1130 will continue thereafter probably sometime like 130.
But we'll announce that at the time.
So as expeditious as we can proceed with still properly vetting the bills, that's what my objective is.
So go ahead.
Witnesses in support.
Rebecca Gonzalez volunteer with the Brady Campaign Sacramento Valley chapter in support of a.
Quick Bay area student.
Activists in support haven't changed it yet.
Good morning.
Patty Shanker from Los Angeles and Palm Springs.
I urge your support and memory of all those who have lost their lives needlessly.
All right, witnesses in opposition.
We have two at the table, and the others can speak.
Just give their name and affiliation.
Madam Chair, members of the committee, craig Delus.
On behalf of the Firearms Policy Coalition.
Before I get started, let me just say that I think the idea of two witnesses two minutes.
I didn't say two minutes and you may proceed.
I never said two minutes.
I've not put that, but I will if you'd like me to.
Then I do apologize.
I'm just operating based on past practices of this committee.
No, this committee has not used that timing.
So please proceed or I will cut you off.
Madam chairwoman, members of the committee.
The challenge that we have with this bill is the basic elimination of a fundamental constitutional right for a group of law abiding citizens, individuals who we can send we can hand a firearm to and send them across the world in order to defend our country, but will not allow them to defend themselves here at home in these United States.
I wonder what you would say to a single mother at the age of 20 who is not able to defend herself or her children should an invader break into her home.
The idea of relegating a specific group of people, of once again, of law abiding people simply based on a demographic one can look african American men are more likely disproportionately to commit firearm crimes, yet we wouldn't talk about eliminating their ability to be able to purchase a firearm.
Straw purchasers studies have shown that straw purchasers are more than likely to be female, yet we wouldn't talk about banning females from being able to purchase certain firearms.
Additionally, we would look at 18 to 20 year olds are much more likely to cause traffic accidents, but I don't see anyone talking about banning 18 to 21 year old, 18 to 20 year olds from being able to purchase firearms.
Additionally, the idea of rationing a constitutionally enumerated right is the same as saying, well, I don't know why we need more than one church in a community.
It's also like saying, I don't know why you need to have more than one book.
The idea of rationing constitutionally enumerated, civil rights is abhorrent.
And if we treated any other constitutional right like this, this entire committee, this entire building would be livid.
And the idea that we would do so with such disregard for any process is sad and unsupportable by our Constitution and by the people of California.
And with this, we oppose this measure.
Next witness.
Madam Chair, members of the committee for the record, dan Reid with National Rifle Association.
We're here in strong opposition.
This is a concept that we've explored in this Committee before.
And the governor has previously vetoed the gun rationing aspects as the author mentioned that California is home to some of the strictest firearms laws in the country.
And we have laws that deal with trafficking of firearms and making sure that sales are only occasional.
We have laws that already deal with all these concepts, and what we need to do is enforce them.
And right now, we have a huge backlog on our app system of actual prohibited persons that are in possession of firearms that's sitting out there, and the numbers more than 10,000.
I'd encourage we stop putting the impetus on the law abiding citizens and rationing their rights and taking away the rights of those that are 18 to 20 years old and instead focus on the criminal misuse of firearms rather than continue our assault on the live fighting that we stand in opposition.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Other witnesses in opposition?
Madam Chair, remember, Sam Perrette is representing gun owners of California in strong opposition to this bill.
Thank you.
Good morning, Madam Chair.
Kathy lynch, representing the National Shooting Sports Foundation, the firearms Industry and Ammunition manufacturers, outdoor Sportsman's Coalition of California, Spy Club International and California Sportsman's Lobby, all in strong opposition.
McMahon strong opposition.
And I'm sure I don't get it how we can send an 18 year old to a foreign country risking her life to defend the Constitution, and when she returns, we deny her her right to exercise her right to defend herself back in this country.
That doesn't square.
A police officer is more likely to kill than a 21 year old.
You should regulate their arms.
I'm not in support of this bill.
Any other witnesses in opposition?
All right.
Senator Portantino, if you would you like me to respond?
No, not respond.
Well, I was going to ask for your close, but I would just note and maybe you were planning to note that California has one of the lowest rates of gun violence deaths per capita of any state.
And additionally that Florida just adopted the law to limit the age for a person to purchase a firearm.
And if I could also the question was, or a statement was made that there's without a process.
This is the process.
Okay?
So if Senator Weiner thank you, Madam Chair.
I want to thank Senator portino for introducing this bill.
And I'm proud to be a principal co author of it.
And the reality is that this nation, we are just awash in guns.
And we're never going to see a reduction in gun violence until we have fewer guns in this country.
And we talk about particularly guns whose really, their reason for existence is to kill people.
And we have seen that over and over again.
And I am just so sick of the paralysis in this country as we have children getting killed in schools.
And we know what we need to do to reduce this violence.
It is not rocket science.
We need to reduce the number of guns.
And the idea that you can only buy one gun a month.
Why do you need to buy more than one gun a month?
What possible rationale is there to say, oh, I absolutely have a constitutional right to buy more than one gun a month?
No, you don't.
And this is a good bill and I'm happy to support it.
Senator Jackson on the constitutional issue, there are no constitutional rights that are unequivocal.
We require certain conditions.
The right of speech, for example, time, place and manner can be regulated.
The notion that everybody has a right to own as many guns as they want is absolutely a fallacy.
That's not in the Constitution.
And in fact, it wasn't in the Constitution until about 1012 years ago with the Heller decision that allowed an unfettered purchase of different types of firearms.
We don't let people go out and buy rocket launchers just because they want to.
So I find that argument to be not only fallacious, but I think it has emboldened people to expect that they can do whatever they want with firearms.
And I think that does an enormous disservice to this state and to the people of this country.
And I'd also like to note that while one could argue perhaps that sending people off to Ward 18 might not be a really good thing, but we have limits.
For example, you're not supposed to be able to drink alcohol till you're 21, whether or not you've fought for your country or not.
We don't let people rent cars under the age of 25.
So this whole notion about, oh, well, we send people off to war at 18 and therefore they should be able to come back and own guns just as inconsistent and illogical.
And I know we'll keep hearing the argument because it's it's red meat for some people.
It's also false.
And so with that, I would like to move this bill and be added as co author.
All right, seeing no other mics will have you close.
Senator Portentino.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
And I would like to compliment the Chair is a co author.
Mr.
Weiner is a principal co author, Assembly Member Gibson, who's been very passionate about these issues on the assembly side.
He's also a principal co author, as is assembly member Gonzalez Fletcher.
And happy to have Senator Jackson in watching the aftermath of Florida, there was a dad who was a victim.
His child was taken and he said, shame on us in America if we become accepting of watching children die senselessly.
And to me as the father of a 16 year old who was actually in a lockdown at our mall two months ago where there was two shots fired and they locked down the Glendale Galleria for a couple of hours and getting calls from other parents who had their children at the mall.
We should never think of these things as acceptable, common and normal.
And the statistics show that the proliferation of firearms is increasing to these incidences the disproportionate number of uses by teenagers.
This bill is sound in its policy, it's sound in its application.
The statistics bear it out that it makes sense.
And it's also sound in a valid response to what the young people in Florida are asking leaders to do and step up and make it safe for them to go to school, to go to the mall, to walk on Main Street.
There are prudent exemptions in this bill.
This is not just an emotional reaction.
This is looking at hunting and law enforcement and military and trying to be principled in how we draft this legislation to approach that.
So this is the appropriate place and process to have.
This conversation has been noted by the attorneys.
We have the legal right to make these restrictions and we have the moral authority and we have the responsibility ability.
And with that, I respectfully ask for an I vote.
All right, the motion is due passed to Appropriations.
We'll take a roll call.
Skinner?
Aye.
Skinner?
Aye.
Anderson?
No.
Anderson?
No.
Bradford?
Jackson?
Aye.
Jackson?
Aye.
Mitchell?
Aye.
Mitchell?
I Stone.
Stone?
No.
Weiner?
Weiner?
Aye.
