Sentence in earlier years.
The second reason is the likelihood of a substantial positive fiscal impact.
Briefly summarize, the Legislative Analyst Office, CDCR noted that there could be significant cost savings by reducing the length of stay.
Briefly summarized summarized.
CDCR's numbers are 2 million of incremental costs, cost savings conservatively estimated in the range of four to 10 million.
On a personal note, I bring a veteran's perspective to these remarks.
Before attending law school, I served in.
Vietnam as a young Ranger lieutenant leading an infantry platoon.
I spent eight months in army hospitals, recuperating, currently volunteer at San Quentin on a weekly basis with veterans healing veterans, and I've come to know inmates who.
Served in Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Iraq, and Vietnam.
From my personal experience, I have no doubt that many of these men suffered from untreated post traumatic stress.
Today we know PTSD is a major contributor to destructive behavior patterns.
When they were sentenced, the court was.
Under no obligation to consider that trauma.
I'll close by quoting an eminent California.
Jurist, superior Court Judge Hilary Chittick, who.
Was instrumental in creating the Veterans Treatment Court in Fresno County.
When asked by a reporter why courts.
Should give special attention to veterans, judge.
Schiff responded, we owe it to our vets.
We damaged them.
We should work to put it right.
Which brings us to the third compelling.
Reason this legislation should pass AB 865.
It is the right thing to do.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Thank you.
Are there any other witnesses in support?
Sharon Riley on behalf of the Judicial Council, we don't have an official position at this time because the bill was amended into a new bill number, but we were strongly in support of 86 65, and I anticipate that we will, for the various reasons earlier.
We think it's an appropriate follow on.
Thank you.
Are there any other witnesses support?
Any witnesses in opposition?
Thank you.
Any witnesses in opposition?
Any questions from committee members?
I do have a question.
Make it simple.
The way I read the bill, you have to be currently serving your sentence.
I would hope an unjudicial counsel probably won't like this, but that maybe you look at extending it into some sort of post conviction relief for maybe people who have already served their felony sentence, but had this been available to them, that would have been reduced to a misdemeanor.
In working with especially deported vets who are deported because of a felony, it might be another tool that we could use post conviction, post sentencing, post serving to help mitigate the true factors of why somebody committed the felony.
So just moving forward, I know you have a long way yeah, I think.
It'S a really important point that takes the cause of incarceration or the cause of the crime that was committed that lends incarceration and deals with a different issue that is also completely worthy of solving what we're trying to do in this instance.
Which also they would perhaps benefit from is help people get the treatment that they need rather than be locked up.
But the point that you're making is also completely worthy.
Thank you.
Are there any questions from committee members?
You may close.
I will let Mr.
Pogi's passion service thank you.
And I know you will work on the matter with the questions that are answered.
So chairs recommend I vote secretary coldwell Aba, 65.
The motion is due process to Appropriations.
John Sawyer.
Aye.
Junior.
Aye.
Lackey.
Lackey, aye.
Kylie.
Kylie corp.
Aye.
Corko.
Aye.
Santiago.
Aye.
Passes.
