Good afternoon.
Thank you, Mr.
Chair and members, sean Hoffman with the California District Attorneys Association here today in respectful opposition to SB 1437.
I'll start by saying I think we recognize that there is room for discussion on this, on this concept of some level of reduced liability for individuals who are not the actual killer or a major participant in one of these offenses.
We've had good conversations with the sponsor of the bill and there's, I think, a mutual interest and a willingness to continue having those discussions as the bill moves forward.
The two main reasons why the current proposal doesn't really hit the mark for us.
The first is the elimination of murder liability for those who are not the actual killer or a major participant.
We're open, as I said, to a reduced liability and certainly would welcome a conversation about getting rid of the special circumstance.
However, we believe the law should distinguish between a robbery and a robbery where someone dies.
The application of the bill as written today would eliminate that distinction for for certain individuals.
And we believe that that is not in the interest of public safety.
The second piece.
And this is with the retroactivity portion of the bill mechanically extending this to convictions obtained by Plea.
When coupled with the requirement that the people prove beyond a reasonable doubt that someone is ineligible for this relief, we believe will have the practical effect, very likely that actual killers, major participants and those who act with reckless disregard for human life would unintentionally benefit from this relief.
So, again, we would love to continue working with the sponsors, working with the author, to try and address that and find some way to structure that retroactivity piece so that it strikes an appropriate balance.
We don't think it's quite there yet, but we look forward to continuing the conversation, and thank you for your time.
Next witness, please.
Good afternoon, Mr.
Chairman.
Members corey Salzillo.
On behalf of the California State Sheriff's Association, unfortunately, here in opposition, I would align myself with most of Mr.
Hoffman's remarks and just point out two things.
One, the notion that a felony committed that results in the death of another person would end up having similar or not very disparate punishment from a felony that does not result in a person's death, I think is very problematic for us.
And so that's part of where the felony murder rule comes in is it distinguishes those two different felonies.
The second point I would make is sort of what I think Mr.
Hoffman was alluding to.
But this bill applies even in situations where a person has pled guilty in the past and that person is now entitled to the relief contemplated by this bill, which I think we can have a discussion about.
But the problem is that it requires, with the bill standards of the people having the burden, to find beyond a reasonable doubt that a murder under the definition of the bill was actually committed is that you're going to relitigate the entirety of the case.
Because in situations where a plea was accepted, it's not always the case that the prosecution has proved up every particular fact or piece of information that was available or on the table at the time.
So if a person pleads early in the process, that process does not necessarily happen.
And so to go back and say, okay, well, you pled, but now the rules are different.
And the way the standard is written, again, it's the burden is not on the petitioner.
The burden is on the people to go back and say, we already got a plea.
This person admitted their guilt in the matter, and now we have to go back and relitigate not only to the standard of a hearing, but to the standard of effectively a criminal trial on a matter that could be decades old.
We think that's extremely problematic from the perspective of public safety.
And so for those reasons, we'd ask for your no vote.
Thank you.
I'm going to do something unusual.
We have such a logistics problem with this room.
Some people who were in favor didn't get a chance to testify.
So if they come forward to that mic right there and give their quick testimony in support.
My name is Sarah SHIndia.
I'm with restored justice.
And I'm in support of Senate Bill 1437.
You all can move towards the if there's more people move towards it.
So we're not waiting between each speaker.
Thank you.
Hi.
My name is Hillary Blood.
I'm a former prosecutor, and I'm also in support of this bill.
Hi.
My name is Duan.
I'm a juvenile who was sentenced under this violently murder rules, and I'm in support of this bill.
Thank you.
Do we have any additional witnesses in support?
Okay, so now I'm going to switch gears.
Are there any witnesses, additional witnesses in opposition?
Sharon members.
Jonathan Feldman, California Police Chiefs Association.
In opposition.
Members.
Do you have any questions?
Yes, Mr.
Vicechair.
Go ahead.
I'm just a little confused here.
What has been described as felony murder?
I always thought if you were in the commission of a crime and had no intentions of committing murder and someone dies in that activity, that was manslaughter.
So what's the difference between manslaughter and this year?
Because that's but, I mean, a manslaughter charge, isn't manslaughter different than this charge?
Here it is, Senator.
The universe of offenses, the universe of felonies for which you can ultimately be charged with felony murder are based on those that are inherently dangerous.
So I think the distinction would be if you're engaged in the commission of one of those felonies that is inherently dangerous and and someone dies as a result of that, the commission of that felony, you may be liable for murder under the felony murder doctrine.
If it's not one of those, it may be something that proceeds as a manslaughter charge.
So it has more to do with the underlying felony than it does or the underlying crime.
You could certainly have manslaughter that wasn't as a result of committing a felony, but that's where the distinction is.
But you can also have a manslaughter charge in the commission of a felony.
Absolutely.
And the sentencing for manslaughter is far different than Felony Murder Rule, am I correct?
So, again, I need the distinction of why would one choose not to charge one with manslaughter?
Because I've seen examples of someone doing a robbery, as has been described here, and someone was killed in the commission of a crime.
Again, they did not pull the trigger, and they were there.
They might have gotten accessory.
They might have been charged.
I've seen examples of manslaughter.
So I'm just trying to understand why you would charge someone with the highest crime, more serious crime, I should say.
Sure.
And I think that's going to vary.
It's going to be kind of fact specific, and it's going to depend on that person's level of involvement.
It's going to what the role was that they played in the commission of that underlying offense.
Certainly here we're talking about someone who's not the actual killer, someone who's not a major participant.
But even beyond that, there's kind of a spectrum of participation that could bring somebody into the Felony Murder Rule.
And so I think that the prosecutor in charging that case would look at that person's level of involvement.
They would look at sort of the menu of charging options available to them and make the charge that they feel is appropriate, given all of the facts and circumstances in that particular case.
If I may, through the chair, please, Senator Bradford, if you don't mind, I'd like to address that your questioning is precisely why I am carrying this bill and trying to narrow the application.
Because there is, depending on your perspective, one could say that this has evolved into allowing a far greater amount of prosecutorial discretion than we may have intended.
So this bill does not, for example, interfere with accessory to murder or accessory to murder for first degree.
One can still be charged with that.
It would not eliminate it or premeditated murder.
So it does not eliminate all circumstances where maybe I wasn't the killer, but if I was an intentional part of that killing, either in the planning of it or the delivery of it, there are still the first degree charges available to the prosecutor under this bill.
My bill does not eliminate it.
My bill only narrows it so that in those circumstances where, for example and we can all say that person was rather used very bad judgment to be the getaway driver in a situation and not even a getaway driver.
Let's say we know that there are instances where felony murder was charged, where the person the person is just driving and their passenger went into a 711.
And in the 711, or I don't want to use, I'll say in the convenience store, and in the process, they themselves were killed, meaning the individual who went in to the convenience store, then that person who was driving, and there are there are actual cases of this was charged with felony murder.
That person driving may have had no concept, number one, that their passenger even had a weapon, or that their passenger was going into the convenience store to do anything amiss.
So we're trying to just narrow it so that the use of felony murder is actually for people who not only committed, but who were a full participant, known knowledgeable participant in the committing of a murder or in where a murder occurred.
So that's really what we're trying to do with this bill.
Senator Weiner.
Thank you very much, Senator.
And I want to thank the chair for moving this.
I know it's a difficult bill, and it's difficult because it's impactful.
And I strongly support this bill.
I know there are limits to how far we can go because of the Constitution, but this is a really big step forward.
I remember before holding left at office, I spent a lot of years practicing law.
And I didn't do criminal laws say that.
But I remember as a young law student when we first started to learn about felony murder.
And so I was fresh, not jaded, didn't sort of a blank slate like most law students are.
And I remember thinking, what is this felony murder thing?
It seems so extreme to me.
And I remember you would look at some of the cases that we would study, they were really extreme, where people who they perhaps did something wrong.
But the idea that they would be guilty of murder and potentially spend the rest of their life in prison was just extreme.
And so trying to cabin this a little more makes a lot of sense.
People who spend the rest of their lives in prison should be the worst of the worst and not someone who had no intent to physically harm or murder anyone.
And yet we're putting them potentially for the rest of their lives in jail.
And I think it's really important for people to understand two things.
The first, what the church has said, that if they were somehow involved, they can still be an accessory and still be guilty of first degree murder.
This does not exempt people from that criminal liability.
And second, if someone was involved in some way, they didn't know anything of any involvement with the actual murder, but they were involved in a robbery or a kidnapping or another serious felony, they are still on the hook for very, very serious criminal consequences for things like robbery and kidnapping.
You can go to jail for a long time for that.
So we're not just letting people off the hook.
This is about saying we should be limiting the most extreme penalty.
We have for murder, particularly first degree murder, but for murder to the people who were actually involved in those murders and not tangential to it and maybe had no knowledge of it.
So I'm happy to support this bill.
Is that a motion?
Thank you, Senator Stone.
Thank you, Senator Skinner, for your motivation in this bill.
And I agree with you.
There needs to be a higher bar that prosecutors need to use to ensure that an accessory, somebody driving a getaway car, and these very heinous crimes, robbery, kidnapping, et cetera, did in fact have knowledge of the crime that was going to happen.
So my concern with your bill is the retroactivity associated with it and the plea bargaining that went on.
And there may be witnesses that are around or not around, and the onus falls on the prosecutor to try to basically retry the case.
In Riverside County, we have a shortage of judges.
The courts are already congested.
I still believe in due process.
But these are some realistic concerns because some of these people that maybe retried, maybe they were true accessories, maybe they really did have knowledge of what was going to go on, understanding that there are some that maybe probably did not.
But some of these people are going to get a free right out of jail when they probably should remain there.
So I'm struggling with the bill, and I don't know where your negotiations are going to go with the DA.
It seems like the DA even agrees that there needs to be a higher bar as well.
So I wish you continued luck in working with the opposition.
I'm going to pose it today, but I'm hoping that I can get to a yes, because I agree that there's a problem that needs to be addressed through the chair.
If I might address this.
Yes, briefly, there were resentencing provisions in both Prop 36, the fixed to three strikes, and in Proposition 47, and we have found that the court is handling those resentencing quite effectively.
And I am certainly open to speaking with the Das and others about whether we need what additional refinements we might make so that our resentencing process in this bill does not sweep up any folks who should legitimately have been charged with murder and first degree murder.
So I am certainly open to that, and I appreciate the while.
Of course, I would like to have the Das neutral or in support of the bill.
I do appreciate that, the nuanced commentary, and obviously I can't guarantee that we will get there.
But you know that you have my commitment to work on it, and I.
Know that I appreciate that.
Is this due process to probes?
I'm going to support it today.
The retroactive parts are problematic to me.
I hadn't thought it through when we had spoke before about the plea bargain aspect.
So if somebody plead, they really didn't go through any of the details.
So they would actually have to chase that down.
I'm hoping that you can figure out how to fix that portion, because otherwise, I like this bill an awful lot, so I'm going to be supporting it today.
But I'd really like to have that portion addressed.
So let's go ahead and have a motion from before we take the vote.
I'd like to hear from the author on her clothes.
Thank you so much, Vice Chair.
And, yes, we will definitely look at that resentencing part.
And just as my close, England, which is the originator of the felony murder rule, has now eliminated it, the Supreme Court of Canada has ruled it unconstitutional.
And this bill before us.
1437 would put California in alignment with states like Arkansas, Kentucky, Hawaii, Michigan, Ohio and Massachusetts, all whom have narrowed their murder statutes to address the breadth of felony murder.
So I ask for your I vote.
If you'd take the vote, that'd be great.
Motion is due.
Pass to appropriations.
Skinner, aye.
Skinner, aye.
Anderson, aye.
Anderson, aye.
Bradford?
Bradford, aye.
Jackson?
Mitchell?
Mitchell?
I Stone.
Stone.
No.
Weiner.
Weiner, aye.
We're going to hold that open for people to.
