Mr.
Wood.
AB 1919.
I have a note here that says testimony only.
Understood.
Okay, I just want to make sure we're all on the same page.
Good, good.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr.
Chair and members.
Late on the night of October 8 last year, wildfires raged through Napa, Sonoma Lake and Mendocino counties, and lives were forever changed.
The fires destroyed nearly 8000 homes, including nearly 6000 homes in my district alone.
Thousands of my constituents lost their homes in one night.
The nightmare scenario took what was already a difficult housing market and turned it into a crisis.
The North Bay firestorm became quickly the most expensive history in the history of California.
The good work of my colleagues, including many of you on this committee, has ensured that Californians have strong price gouging protections.
Current law prevents the cost of any good or service, including housing, from being raised more than 10% during a declared disaster.
Unfortunately, unscrupulous landlords and vacation rental hosts have managed to skirt these protections and are now taking advantage of those who lost everything.
In less than a week, the median rental rate in Sonoma County jumped by over 35%.
And there were dozens of examples of homes being offered for more than double the pre disaster price of similar homes.
This happened because current law does not provide a method for determining the base rent of a home.
And and that was not, that was not on the rental market before declared disaster.
As a result, homeowners who have a second home in the area have been able to put their houses on the market pretty much whatever price they want.
With an influx of temporary insurance money for temporary living expenses and the loss of over 5% of the county's housing stock overnight, my district has become a prime hunting ground for landlords to take advantage of fire victims.
AB 1919 closes the new rental loophole in existing law by redefining base rent as 160% of the HUD fair market value.
This definition provides a clearly defined number for both landlords and tenants.
To ensure everyone is playing by the rules, I'd like to thank the committee staff for their hard work on this bill.
And when the time comes to vote for it or vote on it at some point, I would respectfully ask for an I vote.
Here to testify on behalf of the bill is Sonoma County District Attorney Matt Cheever and Carolyn Fowler.
Good morning.
My name is Matt Cheever.
I'm a deputy district attorney in the Sonoma County District Attorney's office.
I promoted him.
I'm sorry.
Just wanted to make sure we're clear.
Immediately after the fires, and actually, while some of the fires were still burning, our office did extensive outreach to try to get the word out to the real estate industry and the public about price gouging to try to do what we could to deter it.
And we received hundreds of phone calls and emails from landlords, tenants, property managers, realtors, you name it, asking what they could and couldn't do, what the law allowed.
There were numerous questions and we also received hundreds of complaints.
We investigated over 200 complaints of price gouging, almost all of which were related to rental housing, and we think that that number is unreported.
We think there were many unreported cases because a lot of people who called wouldn't give us their name, contact information, or other information we needed to do an investigation because for fear of retaliatory evictions.
So far, we've filed four criminal cases that are still pending in the courts, and we have many other cases that we're still reviewing for either criminal or civil enforcement.
Penal Code Section 396 currently lumps rental housing in with other consumer goods or services like bottled water, for example.
And we've learned in investigating and reviewing these cases that there are several unique issues and applying the statute to rental housing, there aren't any reported cases that interpret 396, and what we discovered are there have been very few prosecutions statewide under this statute before the disasters that we're addressing now.
We need clear standards for real estate, the real estate industry, for landlords tenants, and for law enforcement to deter price gouging and to make prosecutions workable.
AB 1919 would clarify certain aspects of Penal Code Section 396 as it applies to housing and would extend 396 as reach to a couple of situations that aren't currently covered.
I'll talk first about where we would like to see the statute extended.
The center of the Press Democrat ran a story several weeks after the fires that according to Zillow, median rents in the county were up 36%.
This was largely attributed to new rentals on the market, which were properties that only came up for rent after the fires and from vacation rentals that were now being offered on a more long term or permanent basis.
And in our view, Penal Code 396 doesn't currently address those situations.
So after the fire, some property owners recognized they could pull their homes that were listed for sale off the market and rent them out instead for very high rents.
And since three and 196 doesn't apply to these new rentals, they could charge whatever they wanted.
Similarly, vacation rental owners who hypothetically, before the fire might have been able to charge $300 a night and maybe rent their vacation rental out ten nights a month, earning $3,000 roughly, but absent the fire, they were not going to be able to charge to earn $9,000 a month under a long term lease.
So these situations skewed the market, as the Press Democrat article explained, and also raised basic fairness issues about why one landlord could only charge three or $400 a month and their neighbor might be able to charge $9,000 a month.
Hypothetically, I think I said three or 400, I meant three or $4,000 and the neighbor might be able to charge $9,000, although we don't want to discourage folks from putting additional housing on the market, particularly when there's a housing shortage.
We believe AB 19 and 19 would provide a fair return to property owners who who aren't attempting to take advantage of the, of the, of a disaster.
And so AB 1919 would offer would go to a clear market stand.
Fair market standard in these situations, which would be 160% of the fair market rate, is established by HUD and is published on their on HUD's website.
And that's an easily determinable number.
It's easy for landlords to figure out and it's easy for us as prosecutors to prove.
If we bring these cases to court the next year, we would like to see addressed or evictions by landlords for the purpose of raising rents by more than 10%.
According to Legal Aid, Sonoma County saw a 20% increase in evictions post fire, and we received dozens and dozens of complaints from people who were evicted and then saw their former house advertised at a much higher rate than a much higher rent than what they were paying.
We view these situations as more egregious than normal price gouging.
They exacerbate the problem by creating more homeless people and putting those people into the housing market and further making the problem worse.
So AB 19 would address this by making evictions under these circumstances unlawful.
I'm going to turn it over now to my colleague Carolyn Fowler from my office to discuss some of the other areas that we think AB 1919 would clarify the price gouging law.
Thank you, Chair Swire and members of the committee.
As Mr.
Chavez indicated, one of the other things that AB 1919 attempts to do is to clarify for those property owners who are already in the rental housing market how this statute applies.
Because of the fact that it's currently lumped in with goods and services, there are not very clear articulable standards for the realtors, for the property owners and for the tenants.
We've received a large number of questions, and we believe that these clarifications to define in the context of housing what the before and after rental prices are based on would greatly assist in deterring this and assist us in having to bring prosecutions when it's necessary.
One of the other things that the bill would do is also clarify that within the definition of rental housing, it covers mobile home parks.
As I'm sure you're well aware, our mobile home parks often are homes to many seniors and many low income tenants.
We have seen instances where mobile home rent spaces have received notices in excess of the 10% increase because the property owners believe that mobile homes are not covered under the current law.
So we would like to clarify that point.
The other issue that we've faced is that the insurance companies have come in rightfully trying to protect their insured and get them housing.
Unfortunately, that has driven up the market and we've heard a lot of justification from property owners that it's only the insurance company.
So we're not really price gouging.
But even though the insurance companies are paying the tab, it really does have an impact on the victims because it diminishes their coverage such that their replacement housing may only last for six months instead of a year or longer that it may take for them to replace their housing.
More importantly, it prices out those victims who were not fortunate enough to have insurance.
We had a large number of people who were renters who lost their homes during this fire, and they have no insurance.
And they can't compete if people are allowed to go beyond the prices that are set forth in Penal Code section 396.
The other issue that's been a challenge with the current version of 396 is there's a provision that allows a seller of goods to that were on sale immediately prior to the emergency to base the 10% increase on the regular price of the goods.
So if a bottle of water was on sale for a dollar 95 and it's normally 250, the seller can go back to the 250 price and then increase it by 10%.
We've received arguments from owners that this means that they should be able to return their property to fair market value if it was at a below market rate prior to the emergency.
This creates a number of problems because it's a very difficult standard to determine what should be the fair market rental in those circumstances.
So as Mr.
Chieever said, what we are looking for is a fair, easily determinable rate that's understandable to the public, to the real estate community, and to the property owners.
We would like to commend the real estate industry, the property management industry.
They've worked very closely with us to educate their members, and they think that we're all working for a common good of trying to make a clear law that everybody understands.
We would thank you and request your support on AB 1919.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Are there any other witnesses and support?
Name and organization?
Yes.
Thank you very much, Mr.
Chairman.
Deborah Carlton with the California Apartment Association, and we're working with the author to provide some additional clarity.
We appreciate the clarification that we have so far.
Okay, thank you.
Name and organization and support?
Oops.
Mr.
Chairman.
Members.
Dan Phillips, auto on behalf of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office.
In support?
Thank you.
Anyone else in support?
Tiffany Matthews on behalf of the California District Attorneys Association.
In support?
Thank you.
Nicholas Gonzalez of the California Civil Liberties Advocacy.
In support.
Thank you.
Anyone else in support?
Anyone in opposition?
You want to take a seat?
Katherine Borg with the western manufactured housing communities.
We're working with the author to deal with the mobile home park spaces.
Most, if not all of those spaces are currently under rent control, so the 10% may be very low if somebody has been there for 20 years, and that space would have normally gone up, so we're working with them on that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning, Mr.
Chair and members.
Kareem dressy with the California Association of Realtors.
We're currently in an in between position.
We've been working with the author on amendments to clarify, among other things, that a landlord may still evict a tenant for non payment of rent during the time period specified in the bill.
So I believe those amendments are being taken today in committee, and we do want to sincerely thank the author for working with us on that.
And once those amendments are in print, we will be moving to a neutral position.
Thank you.
Okay, so are you both tweeners okay, official terminology here?
Committee, any questions from committee members?
Mr.
Kylie, you've been very inquisitive today.
So we could have a good debate as to whether these sort of restrictions are the best or most efficient or most humane way to respond to conditions of temporary scarcity.
But the question I want to ask.
Is.
Using the criminal law in these sort of circumstances, and we have the support from some DA's here, and I hear a lot from members of this committee.
Why are we creating new penalties?
Why are we making more things illegal?
Why are civil penalties not adequate to achieve the objectives you want to accomplish here?
Why do we have to kind of criminalize what would ordinarily be just typical marketplace activity?
Go ahead.
Well, so Penal Code 396 already provides criminal liability in this area, but it does also make these violations unlawful under Business and Professions Code 17 200, which is a civil enforcement statute.
So I think I think the answer is the district attorneys have discretion to bring these actions either criminally or civilly based on a number of factors that we weigh when reviewing a case and determining what the appropriate resolution would be.
We're not trying to create new law.
We're trying to modify existing law, and the criminal penalties are already there.
I think it does extend them to encompass the areas that you're bringing onto the ambit of the would be an.
Expansion of current law, correct?
Yeah.
So do you have any thoughts on that, Mr.
Wood?
I mean, why is it that we need to use the criminal law here rather than just the civil penalties that are also there?
Well, I would say that I would like to have the district attorney's office to have discretion.
I think there are some that are really egregious, and I think those deserve a higher potential penalty, quite frankly.
I think it also creates a greater deterrent for those that are inclined to do it, as opposed to just factoring in the cost of doing business to justify them, jacking up their rates to a high rate and then deal with it later economically rather than having a threat of a criminal proceeding against them.
Yeah, I see that.
Point.
I mean, it just seems that if the whole point of these actors doing this is to maximize their profits, and if you have civil penalties that are monetary in nature that would counteract that benefit, then that should be sufficient, right?
I mean, our hope is what we're looking for is to turn in an ideal world, we would like to not ever have to prosecute people under these circumstances.
It's been very difficult having to listen to the victims of the fire have to deal with these circumstances.
And so we feel that there is a greater deterrent effect to have the criminal process that's already in place.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And you may conclude, well, I just.
Want to thank you, Mr.
Chair and members, and thank you for the questions.
This is an acute problem in our area, and we want to be sure that in the future, other areas do not experience the same kind of issue.
At the end of the day, insurance companies are paying for a lot of these homes that have been rented at really, really high rates.
And at the end of the day, we as consumers will pay for that in higher premiums for our insurance as well.
In the meantime, the consumer loses.
The rental market is already extremely tight, and we just want to give the district attorney's office the discretion to be able to go after the most egregious actors here and hopefully change behavior and protect our citizens.
Thank you very much.
And I know this is for testimony only, but I want to make it clear we just ran out of time.
We're wordsmithing the language right now.
We're so close that we could be back very soon.
And so anyone that has additional questions or concern, I would get to Mr.
Wood as soon as possible because we're that close to coming back to this committee, which I think you'll enjoy an eye recommendation.
So thank you for your testimony only, and hopefully we'll see you back real soon.
Thank you very much.
We don't see you, but we'll just vote on it.
I'll be here to watch the vote.
You'd be here to watch the vote.
