I could begin as you may order, I'm going to call the meeting to order.
We'll begin as a subcommittee.
I'm going to give the gavel to a subcommittee.
I mean, to our vice chair who's not listening to me, so that I can present on AB 1065 has been here before.
We've made some adjustments to make the bill much better than it was before.
With me today, we have go ahead.
Mr.
Chairman, members Dan Philosado.
On behalf of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office, as the Semblan member said, this bill has been heard in this committee.
Before, with the passage of Prop 47, there was an increase in organized retail theft in California.
However, our penal code needs to be updated to include a specific crime of organized retail theft.
Right now, all we have is our new shoplifting used to be either petty theft or petty theft for the prior.
This bill remedies that problem.
And so we are in support.
Mr.
Chairman, members, stacy Dwelly, on behalf of the Retail Industry Leaders Association, as well as Target and Home Depot, want to thank the author and the proponents of the measure and the administration for working with us on a very specific retail issue that's very important to us and the definition of organized retail crime.
Placing that in California statute is a significant priority for us.
You'll note that the statute does sunset in 2021, and I would envision that we might want to be back to extend that as well.
So thank you.
And I forgot to say, and I respectfully asked for your I vote.
Any other witnesses in support?
Witnesses in opposition, or your support?
Valerie Nura for the California Chamber of Commerce.
We are in support of the bill, and the amendments make it better.
Any other members in support?
Opposition questions for anybody on the panel here?
How did you come up with such a good bill?
Everyone cooperated on this one.
Okay, I just have a couple of questions.
First of all, can you explain the sunset dates that are throughout this bill?
There's some interesting short periods of time.
Two years is pretty short.
Well, we wanted to make sure that if anything else goes on any of the legislation, we'll be able to evaluate how this bill works.
We've kind of abdicated our responsibility over when we were six year members and we wouldn't go back and actually look at how a law actually impacted community.
We felt two years was more than enough time to make that evaluation.
And more important, if we had to make some adjustments, it then forces us to make some adjustments in two years.
Organized retail theft is a very serious crime, and it's in affecting not only the business community, it's affecting a lot of lives.
And so we shouldn't let it languish for a very long time.
And that's why we're coming back and really kind of forcing us as a legislature to look at this again sooner than later.
Yeah, I think, you know, I'm committed to that.
I presented a bill very similar that got rejected in this particular committee, and so things just very interesting, and I'm just trying to get some clarifying answers because, first of all, the study comes out after the expiration date.
Help me understand that the study comes out after.
So I'm hoping that we get preliminary information on the study from the study before it's finalized.
So if we do have to make any adjustments, we can.
So you're right, it does come out after, but we should have pretty good information before then.
Actually, my final question has to be with the fact that on the third offense, when somebody has a theft, they're offered diversion.
On the third offense, it seems like the penalty should escalate, not diminish.
Help me understand that.
So and I think it really depends on the crime.
I mean, even with what we're doing with bail, for example, we're putting in pretrial risk assessment.
And so this gives an opportunity not to just specifically go worse and worse and worse.
You give people, especially people who are on drugs or alcohol problems and things that need to give them an opportunity to if they're into retail theft and they're stealing because they have a drug or alcohol problem, we give them more time to get through some kind of diversion program so they can help them with the alcoholism.
As you know, probably better than I do, sometimes for it to take doesn't take one or two times.
Sometimes, unfortunately, it takes seven times.
So this allows that to be.
Part.
Of the things that we're looking for to make sure we're not just jailing people indiscriminately when we can provide them some services.
That strategy kind of confused me a bit.
It seems like it should be at the very first offense instead of the third offense.
I believe there will be some diversion programs.
As you know, I put $37.3 million for diversion programs for youth, and we're going to continue to put in diversion programs.
Mr.
Chairman, members, dan falls on behalf of the Lada's office, whether or not the legislature or the electorate, through an initiative, a local district attorney can always establish a diversion program unless it's statutorily prohibited.
So diversion is an option, as the way I understood up through the third offense, honestly, it would be, at least in La County, outside somehow narcotic or alcohol issue.
You're probably not going to get a diversion on a third case.
The court or the DA would object to it if it was just because the person was caught for the third time.
There would have to be some kind of underlying issue where diversion would be appropriate.
If diversion isn't appropriate, then like I said, I can only speak for La County, but we would object because it's my understanding the diversion is optional.
It doesn't mandate the diversion be granted.
Okay.
Any other questions?
Comments?
Do we have a quorum?
Yeah, you can ask.
Do we establish that first?
Let's go ahead and do that.
John Sawyer.
Here.
Lackey.
Here.
Carrio.
Tom Lagerdove.
Kylie Quirk.
Here.
Santiago.
Okay.
Corn is present.
Anybody else have any comments?
Anything they would like to say?
You can close.
Respectfully ask for your I vote.
On AB 1065.
The recommendation is to be concurred in Jones.
Sawyer.
Jonesyr.
I Lackey.
Lackey.
Not voting.
Garrio.
Garillo.
I camelaugh or dove?
Kylie.
Kylie.
I.
Quirk.
Quirk.
I Santiago.
Measures out.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
I think that's it, right?
Okay.
But for me, since I voted.
Right?
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
On 1065.
Camel, gerdev.
Camlager.
Dove.
I.
Will hold the role for another four minutes and then we'll close for Mrs.
Santiago.
On AB 1065.
Santiago.
Santiago.
I.
Public safety committee meetings.
