All right.
Opposition to SB 1129.
Thank you.
Good morning, Mr.
Chair and members of the committee.
My name is Avi Levy, and I'm a certified family law specialist.
And I am here on behalf of the association of Certified Family Law Specialists, also known as Acfls.
Acfls is a nonprofit organization with approximately 685 members, all of who are certified as Family Law specialists by the State Bar of California Board of Legal Specialization.
Acfls abhors domestic violence and believes this committee must focus on the overriding issue of protecting victims of domestic violence.
What SB 1129 does is it elevates financial issues such as spousal support, attorneys fees, and pension rights over a victim's protection.
Acfls believes that SB 1129 will have the adverse effect of actually harming victims of domestic violence.
It will take away all judicial discretion in awarding spousal support to two victims of domestic violence and felony convictions and will end up forcing victims of domestic violence to testify in every domestic violence case as no alleged abuser.
Will plead guilty to a lesser offense of domestic violence, not even to a misdemeanor offense due to a potential loss of property rights and support.
SB 1129 will cause the unintended consequence of having significantly less criminal convictions for domestic violence, thereby making it more dangerous for victims of domestic violence, and that it will result in almost every criminal charge for domestic violence going to trial, and will likely cause wobbler cases of which there are many, to result in acquittals.
With the current law in place, there is an incentive for alleged abusers to plead to a lesser offense and avoid a trial.
This results in a higher conviction rate for domestic violence perpetrators and avoids a victim from having to go through the trauma of testifying in criminal court against her abuse of spouse.
Although the amendments, the recent amendments, make a distinction between a mandatory loss of property rights and felony convictions versus a rebuttable presumption against the loss of property rights, when alleged abuser is advised of this potential loss, they're less likely to plead out.
They will take their chances at trial, where the alleged abuser will have a public defender representing them, and the victim will have to stand trial to testify against her abuser and relive the abuse.
This bill could lead to a true abuser to abate a victim into retaliatory domestic violence and attempt to ensure he doesn't have to pay spousal support in a long term marriage or share his lucrative pension with his spouse.
It would cause a victim who was defending herself finally, or who finally snapped and was criminally convicted of a domestic violence to lose all rights to support and retirement benefits, and not even have the funds to hire an attorney to defend herself for an example.
Under this bill, a court would have no discretion to award spousal support, attorneys fees or retirement benefits to a stay at home wife and mother in a 25 year marriage who was a victim of domestic violence her entire life and finally had enough and snapped.
And threw a vase at her husband, made him believe and was convicted of a felony.
She's done.
And then SB 1129 provides a rebuttable presumption against the loss of these rights for a misdemeanor conviction.
Troubling of course, in this situation, there are many times where a wife would send a harassing text message or email to her husband, pleading him to come back for the children or whatever.
And that could be also considered a misdemeanor charge in a domestic violence case.
And that creates a rebuttal presumption against that person from getting any support or fees or pension.
And for all those reasons, ACF LS urges a nay vote when appropriate.
Thank you.
Next witness, please.
Thank you.
Thank you, mr.
Chair and committee members.
My name is Kendall Evans.
I'm here on behalf of the family Law section of the California Lawyers Association.
I am a family law attorney.
My practice is based in Long Beach, and I personally represent a number of domestic violence victims as practitioners in family law.
Flexcom is here in respectful opposition to Senate Bill 1129 unless amended.
As my colleague from Acfls noted, the family law community is aware of and works on the front lines in areas of domestic abuse, and we are acutely aware of the injury, pain and trauma suffered by the victims this session.
Regarding AB 929, Flexcom excuse me.
Worked with staff to expand the relief available under 43 20 for domestic violence victims.
We believe that that will be integrated into 1129 or those will be consolidated such they are construed reconciled with each other.
Existing law in both Family and Tort provide significant financial protections for victims of domestic violence.
The additional relief A B 1129 seeks to create may have significant, unintended, unintended consequences that could ultimately undermine its intent.
In addition to the issues highlighted by other groups, Flexcom would like to raise the following areas of concern the pension provision rule stated by the bill is problematic.
As drafted, it cannot be tailored to ensure justice on the facts of a particular case that may not fall into the typical pattern that we usually see.
While the typical DV scenario is the exercise of coercive control by the dominant partner, it is not the only possible scenario.
There are relatively rare but compelling instances in which domestic violence is not part of a pattern of coercive control, but is rather a one time occurrence.
This is known as situational domestic violence, and its existence is supported by solid social science research.
In the instance of a victim finally retaliating after years of abuse, it would be just for the court to be able to exercise judicial discretion regarding distribution of the pension funds.
Sometimes the parties commit acts of domestic violence against each other.
I think one of the phrases used is mutual combatants, and both are found to be at fault.
The bill does not provide for what occurs in this instance, but under the current language of the bill, the effect would be that the individual who is relatively financially disadvantaged is going to remain that way.
In fact, that would be exacerbated relative to current law.
Ma'am, I need you to wrap up, please.
Yes.
Under existing California law, it's Civil Code 17 8.6 a person who has suffered abuse may file an action in tort.
Flexcom respectfully opposes Senate Bill 1129 in its current form.
Thank you very kindly for listening.
Thank you.
Others in opposition, please.
Good morning, chair members.
Laura Speed with the Digital Council of California.
While we are listed in opposition, we're continuing to review the latest proposed amendments, and we hope to keep working with the author on the bill.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Anyone else in opposition?
All right, seeing none, I'll bring it back to the committee.
Questions?
Comments?
Mr.
Cunningham?
Thank you, Mr.
Chair.
Thank you, Senator.
I am 1000% in agreement with the goal.
I just have kind of a technical question about the lack of rebuttable presumption for felonies.
And I should say, by way of background, I've handled as a prosecutor and on the other side as a defense attorney.
I mean, hundreds and hundreds of DV cases, and my wife practices family law.
So we see the intersection and interplay between two things.
My fear is, in a lot of circumstances, particularly with felons and DV cases, you've got somebody that's an abuser and is manipulative.
Now, that's not every case, but quite often that is the case.
And they can be quite good and quite crafty at manipulating a system that is to their own advantage.
My fear, if there's no judicial discretion in the felony instance.
Is that you're.
Going to have defendants in the criminal system manipulating that system to try to gain some sort of advantage in the family law system.
And if you take away the ability of a judge to evaluate it, then as a criminal defense attorney, when you're advising your client, whether you're a public defender or private counsel, of the consequences of the plea, you'd be duty bound to advise them that it might have the effect or will have the effect if it's a felony.
If this becomes law of stripping away any rights they may have to community property with respect to the pension.
And spousal support that could give incentives to people to prolong a criminal case that really shouldn't be prolonged or force, in essence, a trial, particularly if they're getting a free attorney in the public defender circumstance.
High quality.
Of course, Mr.
Caller.
But it could prolong the resolution of that case because they want to make the victim come to court and be forced to testify.
And I mean, you know, I've watched these people in tears at times, the victim on the victim side at the prospect of having to face their abuser in court.
I mean, that's it.
That is something that takes profound courage and not everybody is in a position where they want to come to court.
So again, 1000% on board with the goal.
But I'm just curious as to what your thoughts are on why there's no rebuttable presumption for the felony situation.
Well, thank you.
And I appreciate the question through the chair.
The first part of your question why we don't allow the rebuttable presumption on the felony.
We have existing law in California from Senate Bill 1522 by Senator Atkins which established the absolute prohibition in a felony conviction somebody convicted of sexual assault as their form of domestic abuse or attempted murder.
What that leaves is we'll say a woman's spouse who is beaten close to death, but there's not an allegation of attempted murder potentially forfeits pension rights, community property rights, et cetera.
So the felony part conforms and members in both the felony and misdemeanor components due process is afforded the accused in a criminal court.
There are those in the domestic violence community who think simple accusations should result in these remedies.
We have the standard of a criminal conviction where the accused is afforded full due process, whether it's felony or misdemeanor.
The other part of your question about how this might affect the plea bargaining or people playing the system and the concern of a victim having to testify in court well, if an accuser is charged, if an abuser is charged, likely a prosecutor is going to work with the victim to secure testimony from that victim.
But we're told from the opponents of this bill that they shouldn't pursue this because they can pursue a remedy in tort by pursuing a civil action after the abuse has taken place.
And that requires them to come back into court to depositions, lengthy depositions, so the abuse doesn't end.
And the only place that it can happen isn't necessarily in the criminal setting.
So by protecting the due process rights of the accused and in the misdemeanor arena, allowing full discretion of the judge.
To understand.
The other hypothetical we've heard is that the throwing of the vase retaliation.
A victim of abuse like Ms.
Martin for many years reaches a breaking point, throws a vase at the long term abuser and gets charged with a crime.
Well, simply throwing a vase is probably not going to be charged as a felony.
If it were, it might be pled down to a misdemeanor.
The judge reserves in this bill full discretion to review that history of 20 years of abuse, to review facts and evidence of a breaking point of a victim, and full discretion to award some or none of the pension or community property to the abuser or none.
And so I think the amendments that the committee has developed with respect to the misdemeanor, it protects full discretion of the judge to listen to these what I think are probably unique examples.
I recognize they happen.
But friends, the vast majority of victims of abuse are women.
The vast majority of victims of that abuse are from abusive husbands, and the current law protects them in sharing the earnings, the pension of their victim.
We're trying to conform to law what already exists for the victim of a sexual assault or an attempted murder.
We think it should apply to all victims where there's a felony conviction.
So I hope that addresses it.
Maybe not satisfactorily, but that would be my response.
Thank you.
Ms.
Cara.
Well, thank you for bringing the bill forward.
I think it's an important bill, an issue that we continually and understandably are putting more and more focus on, the more we're realizing about abuse and the fact that not only do victims come in all wealth classes all races, you name it, but so do perpetrators.
And that there isn't an image that you can say, well, that's a perpetrator and that's not.
I think we're learning a lot more about that in recent years, which is good.
And certainly I think there's no doubt that there are many situations and scenarios where victims can be financial hostages in different forms.
In this form, it could be the risk of losing their pension, retirement, what have you, for many immigrants.
I know that we see this a lot, the South Asian community, they come here, they get married and come here and they don't know anyone and they feel helpless to be able to reach out if they're victims of domestic violence because they will be abandoned.
And so there are a lot of different forms that this kind of abuse takes a shape in.
I appreciate Ms.
Martin and others that were willing to have the courage to speak about it.
It's a very vulnerable position to be in.
It's courageous and it reminds me of when I was a young attorney, I was in chambers and there was a case where I got a little emotional about and started crying.
And I was very embarrassed that I wasn't crying.
And the judge said to me, never apologize for being human.
And so please don't apologize for the emotion you're showing, because I think that it comes from a real place, and it helps us to understand that this is when we're doing laws and we're doing kind of on paper, black and white, that we're actually trying our best to protect people in our community.
And it's not always easy to do because as we are hearing, there is due process, there are rights that everyone has through our system.
And as mentioned, my colleague, I worked as a public defender, deputy public defender, for eleven years and so know very well about the criminal justice system, far more than the family court system.
However, my understanding of family law is that it gets very contentious and I appreciate the honing in and the focus of the amendments on the misdemeanor aspect because oftentimes my understanding in family court accusations are flying back and forth.
And I think we really need to make sure that a court has the discretion as to how it applies the rule, the rebuttable presumption as it applies to misdemeanor charges.
And I do as oftentimes, the case has some sensitivity raised by judicial counsel as to resources for the courts.
There's no doubt that and I know our chair agrees, that we have to continue to get more resources for our courts in general.
And so I think that that's when I hear that common refrain from our judicial council, I take it to heart, because there's no doubt, even with our budget giving more resources to our judicial system, there's still more that we need to do.
And I think that every time we put on more opportunities for or more occasions where courts are going to have to have more discretion, then clearly that could potentially add to workload.
However, I appreciate judicial discretion.
I know that I've said this in the past when it comes to mandatory enhancements and what have you.
And the one thing that I'll mention is that there's no doubt with the felony charges that, yes, it could add another element to defendants to consider to weigh as to whether they're going to plead guilty or not.
That there's no doubt about it.
Anytime you have, whether it's an immigration consequence, potential and family law consequence, whether it has to with custody or children, as a former defense attorney, those are all things that we would very seriously advise our clients on.
And this would be one more thing on a felony case.
But to suggest that this consequence alone will be a determining factor as to whether they'll go to trial or not is just not realistic.
I think that if someone's facing prison time if they go to trial, and if they are given an opportunity to avoid prison time for not going to trial, I think that probably has a much greater impact on their decision as to whether they plead or not.
And as opposed to fighting it all the way.
Not saying that there won't be occasions where there will be cases that are going to go forward because of this issue.
Of course there are going to be some occasions.
But in the balance, I don't see that if you're talking about a legitimate serious felony case that otherwise would not be reduced to a misdemeanor.
Because oftentimes many felony cases are reduced to misdemeanor when the facts come out, particularly when there's a woman being accused of a felony and they are a part of and they've been in a violent relationship for a long time, and it's them responding back.
Oftentimes at the criminal court level, those issues will be taken into account, and there'll be consideration, and oftentimes those cases will be reduced to a misdemeanor.
Given the nature of the relationship and the opportunity for the courts and for the district attorney to have the opportunity to further delve into the case, the one thing, just as a defense attorney is this is in some ways not directly a criminal enhancement, but it does enhance penalties for criminal offenses.
And so I think in weighing everything, I still support the bill.
Because I think that there are still that there's still a far more disappointment.
Number of women who are victims of violent domestic violence crimes that are not getting their fair shake.
All in all, in terms of the outcome of cases, both criminally and in family law, but what I would be interested in knowing is if this were to become law, to not just put it in a backshelf somewhere and forget about it.
I would really like to see two, three years down the line what the impacts are, because I do have some concerns that have been raised, including raised by opposition.
And I think it will be incumbent upon us to return to this to see what the outcomes are in the years ahead, to make sure that it has the desired outcome, which I know, Senator, your intentions are 100% pure and good in trying to protect victims of domestic violence.
And with that goal, I certainly support it.
Thank you.
Mr.
Kylie, a couple of questions for the opposition.
So the perverse consequences that you warn of, have you seen that play out with respect to the felonies for which there's already a bar on spousal abuse?
And if not, why would this additional class of and felonies have those perverse consequences?
And then, sorry, second question is under existing law, the family law judge can already consider a criminal history and making the spousal abuse award.
And so this bill would create a rebuttable presumption for misdemeanor cases.
So why do you see the elevation of this evidence being relevant to it becoming a rebuttable presumption to be such a strong factor that would then drive the decision whether to accept a plea bargain on the part of a defendant?
I could take the second question.
Okay.
With respect to existing law.
What existing law does is give the judicial officer the discretion to take any documented history of domestic violence between the parties into consideration when it comes to the award of spousal support and attorneys fees, because the attorneys fees statutes direct the court to look at the spousal support statutes when it comes to that.
But creating a rebuttable presumption, for example, for a misdemeanor conviction, overcoming a rebuttable presumption is very, very difficult.
And we're talking about a potential woman who's a stay at home mom who doesn't have her own support or money to hire an attorney to overcome that very big burden of that presumption.
And she might not be able to most likely not be able to do that.
I think as an attorney, as a practitioner, it's very, very difficult to overcome a rebuttable presumption versus the current law, which allows the court to just take everything into consideration and exercise its own discretion, which we think is the better approach.
And then the first question with respect to the felonies that are already considered to create this bar.
Well, I hope that I can answer your question correctly.
I don't practice criminal law.
I practice only family law.
I can talk to you about the adverse consequences associated with a mandatory distribution of funds as a result of a domestic violence action and how it would impact my clients.
They are scared to death to go to court.
It is a struggle.
It is a continuing struggle that requires the support of everyone around them when they have genuinely been victimized, to get them to hang in through the litigation process, to get the protection that they need.
And I realize that it's a very hard call, but I also think that this increases risk for them because we're upping the ante with respect to the abuser.
We're giving him more to be angry about.
Which is not to say that in many cases, it's not well deserved.
I think flexcom's problems were really centered around the process, issues that, when we're looking at monetizing injury, that should be occurring in tort.
Family law does not sit in tort.
We don't have juries, and we supported throughout the process, early on and throughout the process, making an easier pathway for domestic violence victims to get into the tort system to get the help they need there rather than having this kind of blanket treatment.
I understand everyone's concerns regarding this.
I just have genuine concern for the victims when the abusers find out the amount of money that's at stake.
Thank you.
Other questions?
Comments?
All right.
Seeing none, senator, you may close.
Well, thank you, Mr.
Chair and members.
I appreciate the time you've afforded to this, and I'm the first to acknowledge the challenges.
I would say, however, that we establish a bar that requires a criminal conviction that affords due process rights to an alleged abuser.
It also can inform a family court as to a very high standard, the highest standard in terms of determining guilt and innocence.
We're told that the no fault system in family law is sacrosanct, and this will upset a no fault system.
But, friends, we're talking about a system where somebody has been found guilty of fault in a criminal proceeding, attempted murder, sexual assault, felonies currently protect the victim from the abuser benefiting financially from that.
The question from Assembly Member Kylie I don't think was fully answered.
We don't have that.
I'm aware of any data of how that's adversely impacted victims.
Our hope is that it does adversely impact a convicted felon who's engaged in sexual assault or attempted murder.
We think that same standard should apply to anyone convicted of a felony.
How this impacts criminal courts in plea bargaining, it perhaps will give a prosecutor some leverage to secure a plea for a misdemeanor so that the person accused of a felony has an option to appeal to the discretion of the court.
I don't think that's necessarily bad in terms of opening up a protection of rights with a misdemeanor plea in a felony situation.
But the purpose of this law is not to dictate how criminal defense or criminal prosecution fulfills their job.
I do think it would be incumbent on the defense attorney to make his or her client fully aware of potential family law implications.
They already exist under existing law for sexual assault or attempted murder.
We think it should apply to all felonies.
We think that's just it's equitable.
And at the core of this is protecting predominantly women victims of long term abuse, assault, attempted murder, and even murder.
And that it's high time that California recognizes that, as we have with a narrow class to extend that to other classes of victims of domestic violence.
And with that, Mr.
Chair, I'd respectfully ask for your I vote and again want to thank you and your committee staff for helping craft, I think, very reasonable amendments to greater certainty and predictability in the misdemeanor arena.
Thank you.
Thank you, Senator.
We will take this up once we get a form.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Senator Waikowski.
