I thank you members.
All right, Senator Moni, that takes us to item number 13, SB 1129.
Thank you.
Morning.
Good morning, Mr.
Chair and members.
I'd like to begin by accepting the committee amendments, especially thank you and committee staff for your excellent work in helping to make this a better bill.
So, in accepting the amendments, I want to thank you for working closely with our staff.
Thank you, Senator.
Members.
Senate Bill 1129 will correct an injustice found in California's current family law codes, where only certain survivors of domestic violence are protected from being forced to financially support their abusive spouse at the end of a marriage.
Current law shields victims of attempted murder and victims of violent sexual felonies from having to pay their abuse or spousal support, attorneys fees out of their separate property, or future income from interest in their pension or retirement.
Survivors of all other forms of domestic violence, however, cannot benefit from this important financial protection.
Senate Bill 1129 addresses this inequity by expanding eligibility for these protections to all survivors of domestic violence through a bifurcated system that provides guidance as to when the courts can award support to an abusive former spouse.
If an abuser is convicted in a criminal court of felony domestic violence, meaning they are likely headed to prison for a heinous act against their spouse, the court will be prohibited from ordering financial support from the survivor.
If an abuser is found guilty by a criminal court of misdemeanor domestic violence, then the abuser will face a rebuttable presumption that they will not receive spousal support.
Senate Bill 1129 maintains existing law that allows a survivor of abuse who fights back against their spouse and who is subsequently convicted of abuse themselves to present this evidence of their history as a victim before a judge in order to rebut the presumption.
Finally, the Chair's amendments will further clarify that instances that in instances of a misdemeanor conviction, the judge will have complete discretion in determining if the injured spouse is entitled to all or some of their interest in the community property pension.
While family law professionals have shared and will continue to share concerns about this bill, we feel we have crafted a balanced and thoughtful approach to protecting survivors that has received bipartisan support throughout the legislative process to date.
Extending these protections to all victims not only creates parity in the law, it will ensure that men and women who survive the insidious cycle of domestic abuse are not revictimized by having to support their abuser after they've succeeded in escaping the marriage.
I want to thank you for this opportunity.
Respectfully ask for your I vote and Mr.
Chair, with your permission, I'd like to present one witness and then if with the Chair's permission, I have a short statement from a witness who, because of her circumstance, isn't able to appear publicly.
I have a short statement that I'd like to read, with your permission, from that victim.
But I would just start by introducing our first witness.
Good morning.
I'm Laura Lee Martin.
I'm part of a hidden demographic of domestic violence survivors.
I'm hidden, but not unique.
I'm an educated woman who had a professional career, has earned a good income, and who lives in a nice house.
On the outside, everything looked perfect.
But behind closed doors, domestic violence raged.
I'm 64.
I'm disabled.
I have a rare heart condition.
I'm on SSDI and a fixed pension.
I care for an adult son disabled son who suffered a brain injury on his high school graduation trip to Disneyland two years ago.
I am a survivor of domestic violence that spanned nearly 32 years.
This bill hits close to home, but it won't benefit me.
I was employed by the University of California 25 years.
I started the science fellowship program in the legislature ten years ago.
In my professional life, I was confident and effective.
At home, I lived on eggshells.
I feared for my life and the safety of my son.
I'd sleep in the ground floor guest room so I could climb out a window with a car backed in the driveway.
I had a note in my safety deposit box that said if anything happened to me, it was my husband.
Only after my son's brain injury did my son's safety outweigh my own fear of the financial loss.
Current laws protect me from paying spousal support.
Thank you.
Sorry.
Thought I had it together.
They do not protect me from losing up to 50% of my pension and my retirement savings.
I'm living on those monies, those pension and retirement dollars.
It is no different to me than providing him with spousal support.
He gains, I lose, unless I stay married to him.
If I'd stayed in this relationship until he tried to murder me, I wouldn't lose any retirement or pension income.
Under state law, the line of luck between attempted murder and murder is too thin and unpredictable to be what this legislature intended to be the best to protect domestic violence victims.
My husband played on my fear of financial insecurity to keep me captive.
His return on investment increased with the years of abuse.
This is not about fault.
This is not about denying a nice guy his share of community property earned during a marriage.
It's about future financial reward for somebody who extracted from the victim during the ongoing perpetration of a crime.
A reward this victim, any victim, will pay to the abuser for the rest of the victim's life.
Sarah moves into the line of elder abuse.
At that point, financially, my husband will be rewarded.
My son and I will struggle.
This bill will also help remove the financial insecurity that holds many victims like it did me captive.
And it will send a message to abusers that there is a financial consequence for their abuse.
It will help victims like me come out of the shadows.
I'm still married to my husband the financial consequences of leaving him are so dire.
Given my age, my disability, and my need to care for my son, I really don't know what to do.
I have the option of civil court.
The State of California chose to let him plea bargain down.
I'd have to start all over in civil court because I can't carry that conviction forward.
That was a decision of the State of California.
I had no say in that.
I urge you to vote positively for this.
I thank Senator Manning for authoring this bill, and I respect and thank all of you for your time.
Thank you.
Senator, you had a statement you wanted?
Yes.
Thank you, Mr.
Chair.
Members, our second support witness was a constituent of mine who would have liked to be here today, but unfortunately was forced to leave the state and change her identity in order to fully escape her abusive spouse.
With the permission of the chair, which I've requested, I'll read this short excerpt.
Dear Committee Members, I'm writing in hopes that you will help victims of domestic violence in a way that wasn't available to me.
My case is complete.
I consider myself lucky.
However, I embarked on this journey to work with Senator Moning to change legislation so that others would be protected from what I deemed an unethical loophole in California family law.
I have nothing to personally gain by urging this legislative change.
I'm a neurologist who trained at one of those Ivy League ivory tower institutions.
I'm young, I have and had a good, steady income.
I had a respectable education and a knowledge base associated with identifying abuse and psychopathy.
I was even on my psychiatric rotation at the number one psychiatric institution in the country when I married.
However, none of this education protected me.
I entered into my marriage with no warning signs, and the abuse was introduced in a slow, calculated way that led me to be both fearful and full of guilt and servitude all at the same time.
I've since learned this is all part of the victimization cycle.
In the end, he nearly ended my life laying in weight with a shotgun under my bed after a heated strangling incident.
I thought California was a progressive state until I went through this experience.
I do not believe the laws intended to financially benefit abusers, but I do think they were written at a time when it was assumed only women could be abused and only men could earn an income.
The reality is, anyone is subject to abuse, no matter their means, status or gender.
I truly hope you pass this bill.
I'm afraid if you don't, it sends the message that in California, it literally pays to be an abusive spouse.
Thank you for your time.
Signed, Jane Doe.
Thank you with that, Mr.
Chair.
Thank you.
Thank you, Senator.
Anyone else in support?
All right.
Gina Bella with the people rising Strongly support.
Robin Vidston.
The Remembrance Project in support.
Raul Rodriguez.
America first Latinos.
In support.
American children's first.
In support.
Thank you.
Anyone else in support?
All right.
Seeing none opposition.
Gene McLeod save our state.
I'm in support.
