Good morning, Mr.
Chairman.
John Caldwell.
John Caldwell, on behalf of the California Hotel Lodging Association.
Just to start off with a simple, simple statement.
The California Hotel Lodging Association does not have our hotel members, does not have a problem with a bill that mandates these panic buttons.
Our problem.
So if the bill was amended to just remove, to just make it a simple bill that says every hotel has got to provide their housekeepers with panic buttons, we would remove our opposition.
The problem is that there's a provision in the bill that says once you pass this bill, local governments can come along and pass their own ordinances.
So bill passes, every hotel, every motel, every inn, bed and breakfast provides this technology to all their employees in the state of California.
Very expensive.
Then city of Pasadena comes along and passes their ordinance.
Their ordinance requires different technology.
So every hotel in the city of Pasadena has to then scrap the technology that's required under this bill and come up with the wrong.
And then the neighboring city of Los Angeles, for example, comes up with their technology, which is different from the Pasadena one, and it's also different from the state of California one.
You end up imagine a situation where you have an owner who has property all over the state of California.
So he's got one set of technology expensive for Pasadena, another for Los Angeles, another for the state of California.
So this is a bizarre way to handle this kind of situation.
We're all familiar with.
For example, when cities come up with different ordinances, the state of California often deals with that by passing legislation that takes over the issue.
For example, Senator Jackson has a bill dealing with the problem of cities and counties around the state are coming up with these drug take back programs.
So there's legislation that says, you know what, let's do it on a statewide basis.
That makes sense, that works.
But this takes that kind of patchwork problem and exacerbates.
It makes it worse.
So again, if you just narrow this bill to a mandate that the hotels have to provide, have to provide panic buttons to their housekeepers, we would remove our opposition.
Thank you.
Additional witnesses in opposition.
We'll bring it back to the committee.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
How are you?
Good.
Mr.
Chairman, members of the committee, fred Main on behalf of the Chamber of Commerce Alliance of Ventura in Santa Barbara County oppose unless amended for the same reason stated by the lodging industry.
Good morning.
Chair and committee members Michelle Reyes on behalf of the California Travel Association, also opposed.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Additional witnesses in opposition.
We'll bring it back to committee.
Senator Jackson.
Thank you.
Yes.
Since my name and bill were mentioned, I just wanted to share that it took almost four years to get the pharmaceutical industry to recognize that doing this on a city by city city basis was not a good thing.
And frankly, it's only that that has actually gotten them to the table.
That being said, we are all working very diligently to reach that statewide discussion which may very well have some appropriateness granted that every community and even every hotel or facility may have differences.
But I would like to inquire, if I may, through the chair, whether or not there has been any effort to do some kind of a statewide program which is met with similar resistance, because that seems to have some legitimacy to it, to have an overall statewide, even if it's just the basic parameters, from which then there can be some variations depending upon the circumstances.
So if you could respond to that, that would be great.
Thank you, Senator.
I appreciate your concern.
The intent of this bill is to establish basic statewide floor of worker protections.
And so we intentionally were not prescriptive in terms of the type of technology to be used with the panic buttons.
It is our understanding that, number one, many of the national hotel chains already provide their employees with panic buttons.
We had conversations in the Senate Judiciary Committee about how our state employees in our state hospitals already are provided.
These very simple, my understanding is inexpensive technology lanyards with a button to push in the case of an emergency.
And so I don't think while Mr.
Caldwell raised the image of these very expensive and competing technologies, I think what we're hearing is already being used in the industry are these simple devices, you know, that are more akin to what you might see on late night TV of the seniors calling for assistance when they have an accident.
So that's, number one, the technology is minimal.
It's a statewide floor.
Number two is that there are unique hotel and worker issues that differ from city to city.
For example, Long Beach already has a panic button and other worker protections for their hotel housekeepers that we wouldn't want to impose what is working in Long Beach and other communities throughout the state.
And for that reason, the intent of this bill is to establish the statewide floor, the minimum floor worker protections, but to allow local cities to go above and beyond.
Exactly.
My understanding is if a local city already has passed their own ordinance, they'll be grandfathered in, right.
They're allowed to continue with the technology that they have already.
That is correct.
Perfect.
The question I have is, since this is a statewide issue and I apologize for not I was just thinking about this.
Can we talk about the implementation?
And I want to make sure I'm very supportive of the measure.
As somebody who's had a mother who's worked alone for a large part of her career cleaning homes, I would want her to have some sort of protection in case anything would happen.
God knows if anything did happen.
I have no idea.
But how do we make sure that we implement this in a way that works with the appropriate timeline.
Has there been any conversations about maybe a delayed implementation so that we get this right?
I know other cities have done this, but we are going to implement this statewide.
Is there any thought to maybe a delayed implementation so that we can get this right?
Senator?
Mr.
Chair, I have not heard concerns in terms of the timeline of implementation thus far, and so I'd be happy to address that, but I didn't hear the hotel association raise any concerns about the timeline.
Fair enough.
I just want to make sure I mean, I'm just thinking out loud.
If we had an opportunity, just make sure we get we want to get this right.
I think, of course, the merits of this policy is very well intended, and I want to make sure it's done correctly.
Thank you, Senator Stone.
Thank you, Mr.
Chair.
Golly, I didn't realize that this was such a problem, and I appreciate Mr.
Summer, when you're bringing it forward.
In the United States, over 7 million women work in the leisure and hospitality business.
And in a recent survey, one in three experienced sexual harassment.
Certainly, they should not be subjected to that.
I do share some of the same concerns that my colleague from Santa Barbara does about having a statewide standard.
And it just kind of begs the question for me is, why not just the panic button?
If the locals are going to be able to do their own thing, why not just establish a common denominator, if you will, throughout the state?
They certainly need to be assisted when, in fact, you've got an unruly person in a hotel room.
Why all the other additions besides the panic button?
Well, again, we're not I think this is a relatively modest bill, in that in addition to the panic buttons, we have provisions to ensure that employees would have the opportunity to be able to pursue allegations of sexual assault.
And sexual harassment to appropriate authorities, including law enforcement, also requiring signs to be posted in hotel rooms to send a clear message again, that, you know, we're dealing with a unique workplace condition here, where hotel housekeepers are found alone in these hotel rooms.
And so the overall provisions, I think, are relatively modest.
Common sense protections to recognize the unique workplace challenges that hotel housekeepers face.
I asked Mr.
Caldwell.
Mr.
Caldwell, are you still here?
Caldwell, welcome back.
Thank you for being here, sir, and I appreciate your testimony.
It doesn't sound like you're in opposition to the intent of the bill, but the author says that these other provisions in addition to the panic button, are somewhat modest.
Are you in agreement that those other additions are modest, or how would you like to see them modified to get your industry on board with this protective mechanism for the women and men that work in these hotels?
The discussions we've had at the author's office have basically stopped at this issue of locals being able to come up with their own legislation, their own ordinances.
That's the problem.
We got to get to that one first.
The other stuff I think we can talk about.
But as long as you're creating a system where every local ordinance can come up and require new, expensive technology for somebody who's already purchased it, there's not much to discuss.
So your concern is with cities and counties approximating approximately, what, 500 municipalities in the state of California.
Your concern for your members is that you get 500 different sets of rules to accomplish a common goal in addition.
To the state one.
In addition to that, again, you spend all the money on the city goes out and spends all the money on whatever the state requires, and then the city comes along and says, okay, we want a different one.
You have to trash it.
Okay.
Well, I appreciate your testimony, Mr.
Mercier.
Would it be a fair request to ask you to continue to work with the applicants and see if you can reach some kind of compromise?
I think it'd be great if you get the hotel industry behind your bill.
My door is always open.
Okay, I appreciate that.
Thank you for your consideration.
Thank you.
There's a motion, and before we vote again, I would just encourage you to maybe consider talking to some of the other opposition folks who are trying to make sure that we at least have some sort of appropriate implementation.
Maybe that's a conversation you have.
As this bill moves forward to appropriations, I want to make sure it's successful.
Again, I wholeheartedly support of what you're trying to do, and thank you for your work on this issue.
Thank you, Mr.
Chairman.
AB 1761 does enjoy a due pass as amended recommendation to appropriations secretary.
Please call the roll.
Lada?
Aye.
Lada I.
Stone.
Jackson?
Aye.
Jackson?
Aye.
Mitchell, waikowski.
