We do have a quorum.
However, would like to wait for at least one Republican member of the committee to show up.
I'll wait another.
Let's establish a quorum while we still can.
John Sawyer.
Here.
Lackey, Carrio, Gonzalez, Fletcher, kylie Quirk?
Here.
Santiago.
I'm sorry, did you pound the gala?
Oh, I'm sorry.
I spoke to pound the gala.
Now we're official.
And since we're official, let me at least go over some Housekeeping items off calendar today.
Item number four.
AB 1757, chu, polled by committee.
Item number five.
AB 1777, Murrat Succi, pulled by committee.
AB 1783, gallagher, pulled by committee.
In addition, since we do have a quorum, let's go to the do you want me to at least read the consent calendar?
Item the consent calendar.
The proposed consent calendar is item number ten.
AB 1888 solace peace officers basic training requirements.
Item number 13 AB 1334 jones, Sawyer, dependent persons definition.
Item number 15 AB 1941 Joan Sawyer misdemeanors.
Item number 16 AB 1948 Joan Sawyer interception of electronic communications.
That Joan Sawyer must know somebody.
And item number 17.
AB 1985 hate crimes ting law enforcement policies.
Entertain a motion called roll.
John Sawyer.
Aye.
John Sawyer.
I lackey.
Carrio.
Carrio.
I gonzalez.
Fletcher.
Gonzalez Fletcher.
I Kylie Quirk.
Quirk.
I.
Santiago.
Set calendars.
Adopt it.
Since we are moving, we don't have that many items and we should be moving fast.
You know what, Mr.
Grayson?
I don't think we'll have problems with yours once you come and present item number twelve, AB 1920.
Mr.
Grayson impersonation search and rescue personnel and Mr.
Grayson signed in first.
Whenever you're ready.
Good morning, Mr.
Chair and members.
Move the bill.
Simply this bill would make sure that we address those that are truly certified, trained and able to do search and rescue as well as identify those that are not.
And this bill, for reasons of this AB 1920, is to regulate individuals or groups presenting themselves as professional search and rescue personnel.
And I respectfully ask for an I.
Vote thank you witnesses and support.
Good morning, Mr.
Chair members USA.
Much.
On behalf of the California State Sheriff's Association, we want to thank Mr.
Grayson for authoring AB 1920.
And we also want to thank the committee staff and members staff for working with the California State Sheriff's Association and Cal OES to adopt some amendments.
And I think Assembly Member Grayson has accepted those committee amendments and he will say so in his closing.
Also, I do have with me Assistant Chief Mark Baldwin from Cal OES for any members who should have any technical questions or need any examples of times where those who have impersonated themselves in search and rescue personnel organizations and have come on site to offer services, when in fact, they have not been affiliated with any law enforcement agency.
With that, I respectfully ask for an iPhone.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you for reminding Mr.
Grayson to take the amendments in his close.
Are there any witnesses in opposition?
Okay.
Any questions from committee members?
Just want to thank you for taking those amendments.
Guaranteed my support, and I think they were very sensible.
Thank you, Mr.
Chair, for working that out.
We'll give my Republican colleague a little time, just in case he had a question.
Item number twelve, AB 1920.
Grayson impersonation of search and rescue personnel.
Next page.
Okay.
And you may close.
In my closing, I would like to state that I do accept the amendments and thank the chair and committee and the California State Sheriff's Association for working together.
Thank you, Mr.
Grayson.
And the chair recommends an I vote secretary.
Item number twelve.
AB 1920.
Joan Sawyer.
Aye.
Jones Sawyer.
I Lackey.
Lackey.
I Carrieo carillo.
I.
Gonzalez.
Fletcher.
Kylie Quirk.
Aye.
Quirk.
I.
Santiago.
The motion was due passes.
Amended to appropriations.
And that bill passes.
Bill passes.
Congratulations.
Thank you, Chair.
