Moving to item 150 a B 31 29.
Madam Clerk, please read Assembly Bill 31.
29 by Assembly Member Rubio and actually into firearms.
Assuming member Rubio, you are recognized.
Thank you, Madam Speaker, today I'd like to present a B 31 29, a bill to enhance public safety by keeping guns out of the hands of those already prohibited from having them.
In light of the most recent mass shootings, the national spotlight has focused on guns.
Guns laws and their impact on society.
AB 31 29 aligns with federal law by imposing a lifetime ban on the possession of a firearm for people who have been convicted of a misdemeanor domestic violence offense.
This is one of the rare instances where California's gun law is more lenient than federal law.
Members, we are not creating a new class of prohibited persons not owning a firearm, but merely helping keep guns out of the hands of those already prohibited from having them.
Current state law is inadequate to fully protect survivors of domestic violence.
According to the La.
County DA's office, in 2017, 84.9% of the felony firearm cases that the Family Violence Division filed, the defendant had a prior misdemeanor domestic violence conviction.
Let me say that again 84.9% in 2017 of the felony firearm cases that the Family Violence Division filed, the defendant had a prior misdemeanor domestic violence conviction.
Abused women are five times more likely to be killed if their abuser owns a firearm.
And domestic violence assault involving a gun are twelve times more likely to end in death than assaults with other weapons or physical harm.
According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, domestic violence is one of the most chronically underreported crimes.
Only 25% of all physical assaults perpetrated against females by their partners are reported to the police.
Only 25% are reported, let alone arrests, prosecutions and convictions.
This means that 75% go unreported.
There is a very real connection between past domestic violence and a propensity to future violence, including mass shootings.
Tragically, children are the most common victims of domestic mass shootings.
While there are no government statistics on how many children are killed in domestic violence situations, the Huffington Post found that children under 17 years old made up the largest group of victims in the study.
And while we sit here and discuss the domestic violence misdemeanor offense, nearly three US.
Women every day are killed by an intimate partner, and nearly 50% of those domestic violence crimes go unreported.
The Federal Bureau of Justice Statistics says an average of 716,000 instances of non fatal domestic violence were reported to police annually over the past decade, and 582,000 instances were unreported.
For the members who questions why single out domestic violence, well, I hope I was able to shed light on not only the data, but most importantly, the hundreds of thousands of lives that have been lost or affected by domestic violence abuse involving a firearm.
Thank you, and I respectfully ask for your I vote.
Thank you.
Some member.
Kamalagar Dove.
You are recognized.
Thank you.
Madam Speaker, I just rise to urge thoughtfulness in your vote on this bill.
Domestic violence, there is a non negotiable.
In fact, I'm a victim, a survivor of domestic violence, and I know what that can feel like and look like.
But possession, there is a very low threshold for possession in our penal code.
And I just want to share with you two examples.
You could be in a car with a friend and not know anything about what is in that car, and you could get stopped.
And if the police find a firearm in that car, possession is connected to you.
You could be with a friend going to a firing range.
Your friend could not have enough money to purchase bullets, could not have the right ID, and you could purchase them for the friend and never go into the range and shoot.
But you have a receipt.
And if you get stopped, you are in possession.
So I urge some thoughtfulness in your vote on this bill.
And if it does pass, I certainly hope that the author of this bill will take these issues into consideration as it moves forward.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Assumption member Baker, you are recognized.
Thank you, Madam Speaker.
And members briefly, strongly support this measure and very pleased that our colleague is bringing it forward.
And respectfully, the scenarios that have been brought forth to you.
It would be illegal, illegal under California law, for a prosecutor to prosecute somebody for doing that.
And so it's important to understand, while in theory that may sound like a problem, in fact, scrupulous prosecutors will not do what you just heard.
And it's important to recognize this bill is very, very much a necessary bill.
And I urge your support in favor of good policy and not a no vote based on a hypothetical that is illegal under California law.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Seeing no further discussion nor debate us oh, I beg your pardon, dr.
Cork, you are recognized?
Yeah.
There's already a ten year prohibition for owning a gun.
If it's a misdemeanor domestic violence violation, I think that's a good long time.
I could be in support of this bill if someone who had had a long record and if you wanted to change from ten years to 20, I could do that.
A long, clear record would then be exonerated and able to exercise all their civil rights.
I just think that a lifetime ban is too much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Assembly member Melendez, you are recognized.
Thank you.
Madam speaker, we've had a discussion about this, the author and I.
And I certainly understand what you're trying to do, and I think your intentions are genuine.
But there are a few issues.
Some were already brought up by some of the previous speakers.
But I spoke with my district attorney's office this morning about this bill, and they said that you could have a situation where there is a conviction for misdemeanor domestic violence.
In a situation where a husband and wife are boyfriend and girl, whatever, one thinks the other is cheating on them.
They get into a fight, she hits him, throws something at him, whatever.
It goes to court.
She can be.
And there are many times where that happens where he or she is convicted of misdemeanor domestic violence.
So does that person deserve to have a lifetime ban for owning a firearm because of something like that?
There are some things that fall into this area that I think most of us would agree probably shouldn't result in a lifetime ban.
There are some, certainly, that do, but we are lumping everyone into the same category, which I think is an unfair way to address this issue.
There's probably some ways that this bill could be tightened up a little bit.
But I also would caution you in making such a sweeping change like this because you are going to be entrapping a lot of people in this law that deserve not to be in there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I see no further request to speak.
Assembly Member Rubio, would you like to close?
Thank you very much.
I just want to say that domestic violence sees no race, ethnicity, class or gender.
It impacts every community here in California.
And I stand here today with survivors from domestic violence with every community, and I ask your support.
This is also codifying the federal law that already imposes a lifetime ban.
So California, for some reason, is not in line with federal law, which is surprising to me because California is usually the leading state in issues like this.
So I respectfully ask for your I vote.
Thank you.
Madam Clerk, please open the roll.
All members vote who desire to vote.
All members vote who desire to vote.
All members vote who desire to vote.
All members vote who desire to vote.
Ms.
Rubio?
Ms.
Rubio moves a call with that objection.
We are moving back to item 125.
AV 28.
Six.
