Money.
I'll waive on 1014.
I'll just present on 1437.
Okay.
Frasers SB 1437 basically addresses the fact that California's murder statute is broad.
And what's happened over time is that prosecutors have increasingly widened their application of that murder statute, bringing a murder charge even when a death was accidental, unintentional, or occurred without the individual who's being charged knowledge.
The result is that we have many people who did not commit murder who are then charged with first degree murder and then serve disproportionately long sentences.
For example, 72% of the women now held in California's state facilities who are incarcerated under this doctrine and have received life sentences did not commit murder.
So what SB 1437 does is narrows California murder statute so that the sentence more accurately reflects it's not just that the sentence, but rather the ability to charge, and thus the sentence that follows the charge more accurately reflects the person's culpability for the crime.
So that those who intentionally planned or actually committed the murder or had more direct involvement would be the only ones who would be able to be charged with felony murder.
This aligns California with a number of other states who have acted similarly.
States such as Arkansas, Kentucky, Ohio, Massachusetts, Hawaii and Michigan have all narrowed their murder statute in the similar way that 1437 proposes.
Additionally, 1437 establishes a process for resentencing for those who were charged with felony murder in the most egregious type of ways.
And in the long run, and this is where it's germane to approach that will save millions of dollars.
Well, in the short run, if we fix the murder statute, then we will not be in the future putting people in for life without parole who did not have this more direct role in the crime, but in that for those who may possibly be resentenced.
If you are incarcerated at age age 20 under this old policy and you live to 70 in our state facility, which is currently at about $80,000 a year, the cost for that one individual is 4 million.
So that does not include the costs for medical care for the aging population and our corrections budget.
Medical care costs alone went up by 2 billion in the last four years.
So with that, I would like my witnesses and support.
I have Jack Wilson, who is the SF public defender, and Kate Chatfield from Restored Justice, California.
Thank you.
Witnesses and support.
Good morning.
My name is Jacques Wilson and I'm Deputy Public Defender with the San Francisco Public Defender's office.
This is my father, Mac Wilson, and he's a retired Air Force sergeant.
He served in Vietnam.
Two towards a duty with distinction.
He's my hero and my inspiration.
We are here because my younger brother is charged with felony murder.
This is true even though my brother did not kill anyone, nor attempt to kill anyone, nor intend to kill anyone.
He wasn't even present at the scene.
But under the felony murder Rule.
None of that matters.
SB 1437 does not abolish the felony murder rule.
It merely limits its application.
My family is not the only family which has been devastated by this antiquated practice.
The Felony Murder Rule has taken the heaviest toll on young people, women and people of color.
This toll can only be measured in heartbreak.
My 83 year old father's last wish is to be able to hug his son again.
My niece, her wish is to be reunited with her father, who is not a killer.
It cost over $80,000 annually to incarcerate a person.
This bill would save taxpayers millions.
Further, effective lawyers leave no stone unturned when litigating accomplice liability.
Felony murder cases.
That means that cases are in the trial court for years prior to trial.
This can cost the courts and counties hundreds of thousands of dollars per defendant.
The people we are talking about are not murderers, despite their label.
They are sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, friends, and community members.
Over 35 years ago, the California Supreme Court called the Felony Murder Rule barbaric and asked this legislature to fix it.
You all have the power to make that change.
We urge you to support SB 1437.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Additional witnesses and support?
Yes.
Thank you.
My name is Kate Chatfield.
I'm the Policy Director for Restored justice.
SB 1437 is a rule of individual responsibility.
It is a bedrock principle of the law and of fairness that a person should be punished for his or her actions according to his or her own level of individual responsibility and not for the actions of another.
Life sentences for nonperpetrators of the fatal act not only fails to place blame squarely where it belongs, but it approaches cruel and unusual punishment.
And when there is an unjust law, it needs to be addressed.
We believe that Senate Bill 1437 will not only address an unjust law, but we agree with the analysis that it will result in major long term cost savings to the state to the extent that there are near term expenses associated with some number of people who would be eligible for resentencing.
We are, of course, the author and our organization and other co sponsors are willing to work together and with any opposition to significantly reduce the fiscal impact on the courts of resentencing.
Thank you.
Additional witnesses apart.
Good morning.
Andrea Perry with Californians for Safety and justice.
We are co sponsors of this legislation and really hope for an eye, but thank you.
Isabella Duthridge, on behalf of Advocates for justice support SB 1437.
Ignorant Hernandez.
On behalf of the California Attorneys for Criminal Justice and Support.
My name is my name is Dennis Flynn, and I'm a founder and lead advocate for Cares for Youth, a statewide organization to reform extreme sentences for youth and also the parent of a young daughter.
These are two of my daughters.
One's 15, one's two.
In this picture, my oldest daughter has served 22 years of a 33 year to life sentence under the felony murder rule, not present or planned anything in terms of murder.
And one of the people that was actually there was out in five years.
Chairman is Kevin Baker with the American Civil Liberties Union of California.
Also in support thank you.
Additional witnesses in support.
Witnesses in opposition, please come forward.
Finance no file.
No file.
Comments or questions from committee.
Senator Bell, just a couple of questions.
When we looked at the staff estimate, and it talks about the cost and then the cost savings.
When I look at the cost and the cost savings I was looking at, there was 14,473 inmates serving a term for first degree murder and 7299 serving for second degree murder.
Then it says if you take 10% would be filing petitions for resentencing and so forth.
It costs some money.
It costs $7 million.
But if we took 2177 people times $90,000 a year, that's almost $200 million.
So so my my I think am I right?
Yes.
Okay.
So and then you might look at the future looking down the road.
That's just one year.
That's 200 million a year.
So if you look at over five years, that's a billion dollars.
So if we can look at it more from a standpoint of what happens after this, then the other question I have is I know this is true because I've visited many prisons.
I visited the women's prison in Chow Chilla.
There are some people that are, like, tried as adults, and they were convicted under this statute, and they weren't involved directly in the murder, but they were tries as dose as young as 15 years old.
Have you researched that issue of the under people that are has anybody researched I'll just put that way how many people were convicted under the age of an adult but convicted under the statute?
Has that been researched at all?
Because I ran into several of them at the women's prison, as, you know, center about.
We're actually working on legislation to address the minor issue, but if you have.
Any cost on this bill right.
And I'm sorry, I don't have numbers on those who were sentenced under this penal code, section 189 as minors, but I can tell you that that number is significant.
And who were as young as 14.
Perhaps it was 15 when I was there.
You say 14 or some, and hopefully.
That will be addressed.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you.
That's the only question.
I just want to point those things out.
Any additional questions?
Welcome, sir.
It's great to have you here, and thank you for your service.
Senator Skater, would you like to close?
I think the witnesses were quite articulate about the need for this, and I think that while this is the approach committee and it's appropriate to think about it in terms of what the financial implications are both for savings for the future and then also, of course, the possible cost of resentencing.
I think that the real way we need to look at this is that our charging for crimes and our sentencing for crimes should be proportionate to the person's culpability to the crime.
And I think, as was mentioned, the California Supreme Court's own indication that our lack of appropriately limiting our murder statute has had a very the result has been a very barbaric practice.
So, as was said, we are not eliminating felony murder.
There will still be clearly the ability to charge murder for those who intentionally committed a homicide, for those who planned a homicide, for those who paid for a homicide, for any number of more direct and intentional roles.
And there still remains on our books, accomplice to murder, accessory to murder.
All of those other things stand on the books.
It is purely that this bill, SB 1437, would make sure that our felony murder charge was brought for those people culpable for that charge.
And I ask for your consideration.
Thank you, Senator Skinner, for your work on this issue.
Clearly, this again reminds me of the whole tough on crime era, where we should have always been smarter on crime.
Thank you for your work on this issue.
Without objection, we move this item to the suspension calendar.
And I think we are I'm not sure if we're taking amendments in the committee or not, but if there are co authors who want to be added on, and we're happy to do so.
Absolutely.
If you could add me, please.
Yes, thank you.
We will discuss that during the suspense file.
