Presenting.
Presenting someone member kings.
Yes.
There we go.
It's called teamwork.
Okay, this is item 39 a B 3129.
Thank you, Madam Chair and committee members.
First, I'd like to thank the chair and the committee staff for working with my office on my bill, and I would like to accept the amendments.
Today I'm presenting AB 31 29 a bill to enhance public safety by keeping guns out of the hands of those already prohibited from having them.
In light of the most recent mass shootings, the national spotlight has focused on gun laws and their impact on society.
AB 31 29 aligns with federal law by imposing a lifetime ban on the possession of a firearm for people who have been convicted of a misdemeanor domestic violence offense.
This is one of the rare instances where California gun law is more lenient than the federal law.
We are not creating a new class of prohibited persons not owning a firearm, but merely helping keep guns out of the hands of those already prohibited from having them.
Current state law is inadequate to fully protect survivors of domestic violence.
According to the Los Angeles DA's office, in 2017, 84.9% and I will say that again for a little added drama into this issue 84.9% of the felony firearm cases that the Family Violence Division filed, the defendant had a prior misdemeanor domestic violence conviction.
That was in 2017.
84.9% of the victim of the gun violence had prior misdemeanors.
Abused women are five times more likely to be killed if their abuser owns a firearm.
And domestic violence assaults involving a gun are twelve times more likely to end in death than assaults with other weapons or physical harm.
According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence.
Domestic violence is one of the most chronically underreported crimes.
Only 25% of all physical assaults perpetrated against females by their partners are reported to the police only 25.
This means that 75% go unreported.
There is a very real connection between past domestic violence and a propensity for future violence, including mass shootings.
Tragically, children are the most common victims of domestic mass shootings.
While there are no government statistics on how many children are killed in domestic violence situations, the Huffington Post found that children under 17 years old made up the largest group of victims in this study.
And while we sit here and discuss domestic violence misdemeanor offenses, nearly three US.
Women every day are killed by an intimate partner, and nearly 50% of those domestic violence crimes go unreported.
The Federal Bureau of Justice Statistics says that an average of 716,000 instances of non fatal domestic violence were reported to police annually over the past decade, and 582,000 instances went unreported.
For those who question why single lot domestic violence, well, I hope I was able to shed light on not only the data, but most importantly, the hundreds of thousands of lives that have been lost or affected by domestic violence.
Abuse involving a firearm I have a personal story.
My own sister is a survivor of domestic violence abuse, and her restraining order expires soon.
How many other survivors out there are nearing expiration of the restraining orders?
I cannot imagine what is going to happen.
The question of what happens after a restraining order is yet to be unanswered.
And I don't want to find my sister as a statistic.
And I know that many of these women are in our statistics today.
I would like to introduce to you advocates here to testify in support of my bill.
I have Dan Felizado with the la.
District Attorney's office and Amanda Wilcox with the Brady Campaign and Krista Nimzik with the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence.
Thank you.
You may proceed.
Madam Chairman members Dan Felizado.
On behalf of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office, as you heard, the statistics for our Family Violence Unit are horrendous when it comes to individuals who escalate to felony conduct.
That is the unique thing about misdemeanor domestic violence.
Compared to the other offenses on that ten year prohibition list, domestic violence has incredibly high rates of recidivism, and it tends to always escalate.
So an individual who commits a misdemeanor goes on to commit the felony domestic violence.
The statistics show that there are approximately, or a little over a million women in the United States today who have been shot or shot at by their partner, and another four and a half million who have been threatened by a gun from their intimate partner.
Federal law already prohibits the possession of firearms by anybody convicted of domestic violence anywhere in the country, though it is federal law.
So, as a deputy district attorney, I am unable to bring these charges.
And honestly, the US.
Attorneys, this is not their highest priority.
So these cases aren't brought that often.
Our office reviewing records.
We were unable to review all of our family violence cases just for volume.
But we found cases both within the ten year limitation and beyond the ten year limitation, where an individual has escalated and used a firearm to shoot at or at least commit a felony against an intimate partner.
One of the things we found, though, was often the perpetrator, the felony victim is different from the misdemeanor victim.
So these individuals who commit domestic violence, it doesn't matter what relationship they're in, it's the relationship they're in at the time when they escalate.
Domestic violence and rape are the two crimes that run across both racial and ethnic lines.
It's a crime that exists in all of aspects of our community today.
We think this is a common sense proposal.
I personally have handled a misdemeanor domestic violence case that this would have been within the ten year limitation, but within a few weeks had turned into a homicide.
This is a very common occurrence, unfortunately.
And so, for that reason, we ask for your support on this bill as amended or approved.
Good afternoon, Madam Chair.
Members of the committee.
Kristen Mzik, with the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence.
You've already heard the staggering statistics about the deadly intersection of firearms and domestic violence.
And I know that this committee is no stranger to the issue and has worked on a range of solutions to address this from the apps database and making sure that it's fully funded, to making sure that firearms are taken out of the hands of those who have committed domestic violence.
This bill AB 31 29 we are pleased to support because it does, as has been previously said, really align California with the federal lifetime prohibition on ownership and possession of a firearm.
Once there is a domestic violence conviction, it's really in recognition of the very deadly intersection that exists both in the immediate relationship that leads to that conviction and that can continue.
We've seen too often the intersection and the deadly occurrences.
I feel like we come before this committee too often to speak of those that we've lost to domestic violence homicide, so many of which involve firearms.
So I think that my prior witnesses have already touched on the key policy elements.
I'll just say this is something that we feel like aligns with the work to make sure that firearms are out of the hands of those who are most dangerous and that survivors are given those increased protection.
So respectfully ask for your I vote.
Next witness and support.
Be comfortable being that.
Yeah, that's fine.
Amanda Wilcox on behalf of the California chapters of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Some Violence, some of the statistics I heard stunned me and were new to me.
One that was not mentioned that I will share is that an analysis of FBI data shows that 54% of mass shooting events from 2009 to 2016 were related to the domestic or family violence.
So there's often a domestic violence component in these very high profile public mass shootings.
Just another piece of it.
The Brady Campaign's core mission is to keep firearms out of dangerous hands and obviously, domestic of violence offenders we would consider dangerous hands past violent behaviors predictor of future acts of violence.
And as you hear with domestic violence, it tends to be escalating behavior.
So we definitely support a lifetime prohibition, as is federal law.
And in the rare cases where California law is weaker than federal law, we support matching laws so that we have some control over enforcement and make sure it happens.
And then one other point is with the Armed Prohibitive Person System program, which, as you know, DOJ cross checks databases to disarm prohibited people who purchased firearms legally and then became prohibited.
And I recently learned that part of the backlog issue is that if it's a federal prohibition, DOJ is not the position where they can disarm those people.
So it's another reason for this to be a California prohibition as well.
So I urge your support.
Thank you.
Other witnesses in support.
Bay Area student activists in support.
Thank you.
Great.
All right.
Opponents imagine I'm a lonely board.
No?
Okay.
I'm Gareth Byers from the California Public Defenders Association.
I understand the problem here.
I spent three years going every day to felony domestic violence court.
My daughter is a victim of domestic violence, so I understand the problem.
At the same time, public defenders, we believe that there's a difference between a felony and a misdemeanor.
And we believe in rehabilitation.
This bill blurs that difference.
And the misdemeanor is the more likely rehabilitated person.
We think they should be given a chance to whether one agrees with gun possession or not.
It is a constitutional right, and there should ought to be a chance for at least the misdemeanor who has the possibility of rehabilitation.
I heard the statistics here.
I believe them.
I'm not questioning them.
However, they don't include how many of these repeat with a gun were after a period of ten years?
We don't know.
We can guess.
But I think we need a little more information before we say there's no discretion in this.
If there were an amendment saying that there was some discretion, certainly we would at least have to reconsider our position.
But I don't think the absolute position is justified in this case.
Good afternoon.
Lizzy Buchan with the ACLU California.
Unfortunately, we are also in opposition to this bill.
We do appreciate the amendments as we understand them.
These go in the right direction, but we are still opposed.
Want to echo the comments from the public defender?
I think we absolutely understand that domestic violence is a very serious issue.
It causes a lot of harm in our communities.
And I think that a lot of the statistics that we heard really underline the amount of harm that it causes and how serious it is.
But I do agree that we didn't hear statistics that actually point to why extending a ten year ban to a lifetime ban would actually change any of those statistics.
And so what we do believe about AB 3129 is that it does perpetuate a very harmful and unfounded stereotype that a person who has ever been convicted of a crime is forever inherently dangerous.
And regardless of how long ago the crime was committed, regardless of how successful their rehabilitation has been since then, we heard a statistic from the Los Angeles District Attorney about the high rates of recidivism for domestic violence for people who have recidivated.
They don't need this bill.
They're already going to be banned from possessing possessing a firearm, that it doesn't need to be extended for life.
So this bill is only going to impact people who don't recidivate.
Excuse me.
I also just want to point out that under current law, police officers, if a police officer is convicted of the same offense for a misdemeanor, they can actually petition against their gun back immediately.
They don't even have to wait ten years.
So under this bill, which doesn't change that law.
Police officers can get their gun back, but civilians would be faced with a lifetime ban.
This ban is not without consequences.
Someone who comes into possession of a firearm, even if it's 40 years after a single misdemeanor conviction, no crime ever since then, they can be prosecuted and incarcerated for a felony.
This is going to have a disproportionate impact on communities of color.
We heard again from the Lada that domestic violence is situation that affects across ethnic lines.
There is a lot more disproportionate impact of gun gun laws.
According to the DOJ, in 2016, a fourth of the people who were arrested for felony weapons offenses were black, and nearly half were Latino.
This is compared to six and a half percent of the general population is black.
39% are Latino.
So we do believe in gun control.
We want gun control that protects the public and that does not discriminate.
And we we don't think that this is it.
We do think that it stigmatizes people with convictions, and it would have a disproportionate impact on communities of color.
So for those reasons, we are opposed.
Thank you.
Other witnesses in opposition.
All right, questions from the dais.
Thank you, Madam Chairwoman.
And I definitely want to applaud the author for doing what she feels is prudent to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people.
Having served in local government for a number of years, including ten on the Board of Supervisors and doing ride alongs with sheriffs, the most troubling calls, of course, are domestic violence.
And usually there's sometimes alcohol involved or some drugs involved.
And usually it's sometimes it could be a man and a woman or a man and a man or a woman and woman pushing each other.
And then when the police come, what they do is they arrest them both and they charge them both.
My concern is that for a little scuffle, they get misdemeanor charges filed against them.
That you have a situation where a single mother, as an example, may not be able to arm herself for the rest of her life, which I think is very onerous, without any appeal process or way for her to restore those rights.
And so while I appreciate what you're doing, and I find it very hard to believe that I'm actually siding with the ACLU, I think it's the first time in four years I've done that.
But I guess I find ourselves united on this one issue, and for those reasons, I can't support you.
Well, just to clarify to your point on the minor scuffle, the amendments that we took specifically said that we're taking amendments to focus on the more serious domestic violence.
Mr.
Manure offense is not just a minor scuffle.
And that was working with the chair and the committee specifically.
The amendment is that it now only covers domestic violence misdemeanants who have caused an injury.
So those who were convicted under section 273.5 of the code.
Okay, thank you.
Because we were aware of the situations get heated and the minor pushes were reconsidered.
That based on the committee's recommendations to address the specific issues.
I do appreciate that.
I'm so concerned about the ability to appeal and potentially restore your rights.
Can I be heard on that amendment?
I was not aware of that particular amendment, but without seeing the text, I have to wonder what it really means, because 273.5 misdemeanor already requires a traumatic condition, and traumatic condition turns out to be very slight.
A reddened ear.
I've had clients of mine convicted on a reddened ear.
And so without seeing a definition of what an injury is, I have to say I'm not sure there's going to be a real change from the existing traumatic condition.
Mr.
Villagetos, you can respond.
Penal Code, section 273.5.
And I'm sorry, I don't have my codes with me, but and it's been a while since I prosecuted misdemeanors, but 273.5 defines what the injury is, what level I think it's yeah, it's going to say traumatic condition, which is defined.
So it would not alter what is already the law today.
But I think it's appropriate it to point out that if it is a more serious injury, it is then a felony.
Correct.
So the public defenders point that code is while it must be an injury, it can be a mild or injury.
For the chair, 273.5 is a wobbler.
So depending on the level of injury, the district attorney can file that as a felony or a misdemeanor.
In my experience, the typical misdemeanors were the black eye, the bloodied nose.
Those were being filed as the misdemeanors.
The more serious type of injuries were being filed as the felony.
Right.
And also, if I may add, to address the issue of recidivism, I can't even say the word sometimes reciprocious.
I'm a second language, narrower.
What can I tell you going back and forth?
The difference between domestic violence is, as we read in the statistics, is a lot of these cases that aren't reported.
So of course there is no recidivitism because they don't get reported.
And it's not like somebody got caught stealing.
When they get caught stealing, they get caught stealing, they get taken in.
If they get caught stealing again, then they get taken in again.
And you can track the amount of times that they have been incarcerated or picked up.
In this case, the domestic violence victims don't report.
And that's where this bill I see is my concern.
Or this is what I'm trying to address, is because these victims don't report or are under reporting, this is where this comes in.
And it's not a drastic change to the federal law.
Unfortunately, the federal law, like the DA indicated, the US prosecutors are not going to come down and prosecute.
So there is a difference between federal law and California law.
So my hope is to align California's domestic violence gun laws to the federal law.
Right.
Other comments from the dais.
Okay.
Would you like to close?
I respectfully ask for your I vote.
Thank you.
Is there a motion?
And it's the bill, as amended.
Right.
So we have a motion.
Roll call on the bill.
The motion is due.
Pass as amended to appropriations.
Skinner, aye.
Skinner, aye.
Anderson?
No.
Anderson?
No.
Bradford?
Jackson?
Mitchell?
Stone?
Stone?
No.
Weiner?
Son.
Call.
But thank you.
All right.
So we're going to start.
