Assembly Member Jones Sawyer and fellow chair of the Public Safety Committee.
On the Other House family member, you may begin.
Well, thank you, Madam Chair.
Members.
AB 1065 addresses the growing issue of organized retail crime, which has affected local businesses and communities throughout the state.
In 2017, the National Retail Federation Nfnrf conducted the Organized Retail Crime Survey and found that organized retail theft continues to be a pervasive problem within the industry.
The survey stated that 95% of the merchants reported having been a victim of coordinated theft, resulting in revenue losses estimated at $30 billion per year.
While California often creates model statutes replicated in other states, in the case of organized retail crime, 34 states have already adopted statutes specific to this crime.
Each state has crafted a statute specific to their needs.
A B 1065 has been drafted to address this pervasive problem while preserving the public safety reforms already in place.
As you may know, several bills attempting to address this issue were introduced last year.
Unfortunately, all of those proposals contain approaches to this issue that I could not support.
Despite the authors attempts to narrowly address career criminals engaged in organized crime retail theft at the time, I committed to working with stakeholders to identify a multipronged approach balanced enough to provide our criminal justice reforms that have been enough to preserve our criminal justice reforms that have benefited all Californians.
The bill before you today is the product of this collaboration.
Specifically, AB 1065 does the following creates a new organized retail crime statute punishable with a wobbler.
Allows law enforcement to take an individual into custody on an arrest for any misdemeanor if they have been convicted, cited, or arrested of theft from retailers twice within the previous year.
Expands jurisdiction for theft cases and allows authorities to combine theft incidences across multiple counties.
AB 1065 was crafted in a manner to exclude theft for personal use.
It is not my intention to include people stealing food simply because they are hungry.
I introduced this bill to address sophisticated crime rings that are taking advantage of.
Loopholes in our state law.
With organized retail crime activity becoming pervasive, laws facilitating better collaboration between law enforcement and businesses are necessary to improve our justice systems response.
We have a broad coalition from business, labor, and law enforcement in support of this bill.
Here with me today is Michelle Jones, senior Director of Asset Protection for Rite Aid, and Jim Araby, executive Director, UFCW, Western States Council.
There's a third person here, but we'll figure it out.
Would you like your witnesses to proceed?
Yes.
All right, go ahead.
Thank you.
Bill dombrowski California Retailers Association.
What you have in front of you is a product of about years of work, but intense work over the last nine months.
I need to thank Assembly Member Joan Sawyer for his efforts.
I need to thank Chairman Skinner for her efforts.
I need to thank the staff, Public Safety Assembly and Senate for their help.
I particularly need to thank the governor's office for stepping up when we came to them with this problem.
I brought Michelle Jones here, senior Loss prevention person from Rite Aid, and I wanted her to describe how we intend to use this law.
So I'll turn it over to Michelle.
Go ahead.
Good morning, madam and members.
My name is Michelle Jones, and I am a retail asset protection practitioner who's been in this industry for over 30 years.
I started off my career as a store detective and have first hand knowledge of what retailers and law enforcement faces with these organized retail theft crimes.
I'm here today to share with you my and Rite Aid's full support for AB 1065.
It is not only a bill that will address the organized retail theft, it will also address serious safety concerns in our stores.
Let me share with you the reasons why I believe this bill is critical to California.
This bill addresses the increase in aggressive shoplifting activity that arises out of Prop 47, which reduced shoplifting to a misdemeanor of products tolling less than 950.
This has emboldened shoplift lifters who organize in teams.
This increase in aggressive behavior was immediate once the criminals understood the change in law.
The criminal shoplifters know there is no penalty and very little risk.
They walk into our stores in large teams and overtake a store.
These teams will push, shove and assault our associates if we attempt to stop them because there's just no fear.
We have had to coach our associates to back off because many times it is just too dangerous for them to approach.
This bill provides the support to law enforcement and addresses this issue.
This bill also addresses the concerns with aggregation language and allows law enforcement to charge subjects with a felony if there is three or more shoplifting incidents which equates to a total of over 950 in one year.
For example, today a team of shoplifters can steal $949 or less in five different stores in one afternoon.
In each one of these incidents is treated as a simple misdemeanor.
California is attracting this level of shoplifting because of the lack of ORC legislation and aggregation.
This past month in Texas, there was over three quarters of million dollars of overthecounter product recovered.
A significant amount of this product has been traced back to thefts in California.
This aggregation language allows law enforcement to investigate and das to prosecute these types of cases.
This is not the case now because these offenses are treated as simple misdemeanors.
This bill also allows us to press charges to these teams when they cross jurisdictions.
If a shoplifter is apprehended in one jurisdiction, this jurisdiction extends to where the other offenses occurred.
And as you heard earlier, 34 other states currently have ORC legislation on the books.
California does not, and we are one of the largest economies.
California is long overdue for this ORC legislation.
And so we ask you to pass this bill to allow us to address these organized retail theft teams in our stores.
Thank you.
Next witness.
Thank you.
Madam Chair members.
My name is Jim Araby.
I'm the executive director of the United Food and Commercial Workers Western States Council, and we're here to urge your I vote on this bill.
UFCW has always been supportive of criminal justice reforms and second chances because they have allowed those formally incarcerated an equal opportunity to earn a living wage.
The labor movement recognizes the tremendous value of providing these individuals the ability to contribute to the economy.
A meaningful role in society often leads to successful rehabilitation, reintegration into the community, and reduces recidivism.
However, organized retail theft has been an ongoing pervasive issue in our industries.
We have always fought tirelessly for good working conditions and higher wages when stores are impacted by theft.
Soar our workers USCw strives to maintain a safe working environment for our workers.
With such activity occurring in the workplace, our members morale and sense of security is shaken.
We acknowledge the need to change the circumstances our members are faced with when organized retail crime manifests in the stores that they work in.
The bill before you does just that.
AB 1065 has been crafted in a way to ensure our prison system isn't further exacerbated by low level deaths, such as the high school kids stealing for the first time.
This bill takes more targeted approach and addresses those stealing through large organized criminal enterprises.
Furthermore, it strengthens the existing enforcement to ensure the activity can be prosecuted in various jurisdictions where offenses occurred, and allows law enforcement to utilize existing mechanisms to apprehend only those that have demonstrated involvement with organized theft rings.
We compliment the authors and thank the committee staff for working with stakeholders on a balanced approach narrowly tailored to addressing the habitual and organized theft activity.
And the last thing I want to say is, while some can play politics here, our members cannot wait for politics to change.
And we really urgently need a fix in this solution.
We urge your vote for AB 1065.
Thank you very much.
Do we have other witnesses in support?
Madam Chair members, amy Brown on behalf of Safeway Albertson's in support.
Thank you.
Madam Chair members.
Dan Philosado.
On behalf of the Los Angeles County District Attorney's office in support.
Michelle Tomashaw, representing Alameda County District Attorney, Nancy O'Malley in support.
Gail Stewart on behalf of San Diego County District Attorney Summer Stephen in support.
Good morning, Madam Chair.
Members.
Stacey Dwelling on behalf of Target Corporation and The Home Depot and want to echo the comments and thanking the authors and the governor's office for working closely with us on this.
Any other witnesses in support?
How about witnesses in opposition?
All right, questions by committee members.
Go ahead, Senator Anderson.
I'd be happy to move the bill.
All right, we have the bill moved.
I wanted to just express my appreciation for the very thorough process that the stakeholders engaged in.
Because clearly, when there was some discussion of this last year, folks like myself wanted to avoid a circumstance where we were sweeping up individuals who, for example, might, for the first time be shoplifting or other type of circumstances like that.
And I think that the bill has been crafted very carefully, and obviously, from the indication of the witnesses and the author, there was really a very thorough process with speaking to folks to figure out how to do this.
I raised that subsequent to the discussions that I was involved in.
I then observed that not my district, but very close by, there was a warehouse in Fremont, California, that the police in Fremont were monitoring, because they noticed that there was a lot of activity.
And then there were containers in this warehouse that were then being taken to the Port of Oakland.
They were being filled up and being taken to the Port of Oakland and shipped elsewhere.
And the containers, what they were being filled up with were small electronics, and the small electronics had been stolen.
And it was a family that was running this entire operation.
And much of the goods were not all they were from all over, but were from San Francisco, but it was the Fremont police who cracked it because of their monitoring of this warehouse.
So I think that your bill helps to get at those people that were, in effect, selling to that family who were then filling those containers and sending them overseas.
So, my recommendation for the bill is a support.
And we have now a motion.
Unless there's any other comment, I will allow Assembly Member Joan Sawyer to close.
And I want to thank everyone from the governor's office, the Chair of Public Safety and the Senate, and our partners in this, because it's truly been a collaborative effort.
As someone who don't always enjoy law enforcement support on my bills, and I'm probably an alumni member of the Job Killer bill, to have the cow chamber endorse one of my bills, I may even frame that.
And also to also have support across party lines is extremely important, especially when it comes to this bill.
And I'll leave you with this.
We can get these things done through the legislative process.
And I think it's really important that we get 1065 done.
It will get to solving the problem quickly and immediately.
But most importantly, I think it will show that both houses can get things done administratively based on the fact that we are tough on crime, but we also are very, very strong on rehabilitation.
And so, with that, I ask for your support.
Thank you.
So we will take a roll call.
Skinner, the motion is due pass to appropriations, correct?
Skinner aye.
Skinner aye.
Anderson?
Anderson aye.
Bradford.
Jackson.
Bradford.
Jackson.
Mitchell.
Mitchell.
I stone weiner.
Thank you.
With the bill, we will hold the roll open till my missing committee members show up.
And I am now turning the gavel over to my vice chair, Senator Anderson, while I go to the desk and present my bill.
Do we have an author?
