Good morning.
The assembly is now in session.
Assembly member Cork Silva notices the absence of a quorum.
The sergeant at arms will repair the chamber and bring in the absent members.
The clerk will call the role.
Acosta Aguirre curry Allen Arambula Baker Berman bigelow Bloom Bonsa bro Burke Cavalliero Calderon Correl Cervantes Chow Chavez chen David Chu Choi hansen chu Cooley cooper Cunningham dally Daley Eggman flora Fong Fraser Friedman gallagher christina Garcia eduardo Garcia gibson lauria Gonzalez fletcher gray grayson harper Holden Erwin joan Sawyer cholera kylie Lackey Levine lemon Lowe mainshine Mathis Maize McCarthy Medina melendez Mullen murazucci Nazarean Obernulty O'Donnell Patterson quirk Quirk Silva Reyes Rodriguez Rubio Solas Santiago Steinorth stone thurmond Ting Vopel waldron Weber Wood mr.
Speaker.
Members, a quorum is present.
We ask our guests and visitors in the rear of the chamber to please rise for today's invocation.
Today's prayer will be offered by our assembly chaplain, Reverend Bob OSHA.
Reverend OSHA.
Please join me in a moment of reflection.
Five days ago, on the morning of Saturday, January 13, an alert was sent out over television, radio and cell phones to the residents of Hawaii.
The message read, ballistic missile threat inbound to Hawaii.
Seek immediate shelter.
The alert ended with the words, this is not a drill.
My cousin, who works for the Honolulu Police Department texted me that day to share the disbelief and the relief that they felt when 30 minutes, 38 minutes later, a second message was sent signaling false alarm.
How would we feel and what would we think if we were told we might have only minutes to live?
In August of 1986, two years after I came to Sacramento, there was a horrific plane crash of a Japan airline 747 passenger jet.
It was a commuter flight going from Japan's two major cities of Tokyo to Osaka.
Twelve minutes after takeoff, there was a catastrophic malfunction and the 509 passengers were told to prepare for a crash landing.
There were only four survivors.
Back then, I subscribed to the still existing Life magazine.
Life magazine had an unforgettable article that focused on hastily written notes found scattered throughout the crash site.
The passengers were predominantly communing businessmen, so most of the notes found were from husbands to wives, from fathers to children.
Two notes that I read have never left me.
One husband wrote to his wife simply saying, it was a good life with you.
One father wrote to his children saying, please grow up to be the kind of person that people will love.
They condensed their deepest love and hope into a single sentence written from their hearts.
If we were told that we might have only minutes to live, who would we write to and what would we want to say?
Let this be our thoughtful reflection and reminder to share from our hearts our love and gratitude at every opportunity.
Namoami Damas.
With kindness and gratitude beyond words.
Thank you.
Please remain standing for our flag salute.
Today's pledge will be given by assembly member Cork.
Ready?
Begin.
By pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands under God indivisible, with liberty of justice for all.
You may be seated.
The reading of the previous day's journal.
Assembly Chamber, Sacramento, Tuesday, January 2, second 1018 pursuant to the provisions of joint.
Rule 59, mr.
Calderon moves and Mr.
Daly seconds that the reading of the previous day's journal will be dispensed with presentations of petitions.
There are none.
Introduction and reference of bills will be deferred.
Reports of committees will be deemed read and amendments deemed adopted.
Messages from the Governor, there are none.
Messages from the Senate?
There are none.
Today's absences for legislative business.
Assembly Member adriene nazarian for paternity leave.
Assembly Member Kevin Mullen.
Mr.
Calderon, you are recognized.
Thank you, Madam Speaker.
Are requesting animals consent to suspend assembly rule 45.5 and allow assembly members Gallagher and Gibson to speak on an adjournment and memory today without objection.
Such shall be the order.
Thank you, Madam Speaker.
And at the request of the author, please notice removal of item A one AB 1478, Jones Sawyer.
From the inactive file, the clerk will note.
Thank you.
Members, we have guests with us today in the chamber.
Mr.
Mays, you are recognized.
Thank you, Madam Speaker.
Members, inland Leaders charter school is a kindergarten through 8th grade school founded in 2007 in the heart of Southern California in the city of Yukaipa.
Their purpose is to inspire a new generation of students trained to lead by example, with honesty, integrity and service, while holding to high standards for all.
I am proud and honored to welcome up in the gallery today the 7th and 8th graders from Inland Leaders charter school.
Please help me welcome them.
Assembly Member Cork Silva.
You are recognized from Mr.
Gray's desk.
Good morning, members.
Today I have the opportunity and pleasure to present and welcome near US west coast innovation tour of the California State Assembly.
As the 6th largest economy in the world, california is a natural collaborative with the EU innovation based businesses.
The assembly jobs Committee, which I chair, and the Governor's office of business and economic development have pulled together a day of briefings that are designed to support your successful expansion to California.
Near US is commended for the outstanding contributions its program make to the state of California and the entire nation.
And we extend our sincere best wishes for your success.
Members, please join me this morning in welcoming to our chamber the mayor of the city of Patterson in my district, Deborah Noveli and her son.
They're joining us up in the galley.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Welcome, visitors.
Members.
We are moving to business.
On the daily file second reading, the.
Clerk will read assembly bill 1248 and 1526.
All bills will be deemed read and amendments adopted.
Reconsideration file items three through six are continued.
We are moving to assembly third reading.
Item.
Ten AB 282.
The clerk will read Assembly Bill 282 by Assembly Member Jones Sawyer and others an actual language of suicide.
Mr.
Jones Sawyer, you're recognized.
Thank you, Madam Speaker.
I rise today to present AB 282 which is required to provide a technical cleanup to the statute which makes it the family to aid, advise or encourage a suicide.
When the Legislature passed the end of life option in 2015 the penal code provision which makes it a crime to aid a suicide was not updated to reflect that change.
This bill makes it necessary changes and specifies that actions which are compliant with the end of life option cannot be prosecuted under the criminal statute.
Members, I respectfully ask for your I vote.
